{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf470
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 ArialUnicodeMS;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red191\green191\blue191;}
{\info
{\title Multiple Documents (50)}}\margl720\margr720\margb720\margt720\vieww28600\viewh16500\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\li674\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Pagination \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 *
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 F.R.D. 
\f1\fs24 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 **
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 BL
\f1\fs24 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\li674\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 United States District Court, S.D. Florida. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 QBE INSURANCE CORPORATION, Plaintiff, v. JORDA ENTERPRISES, INC., Defendant. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 No. 10-21107-CIV. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 January 30, 2012. [*677] \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
[EDITORS' NOTE: THIS PAGE CONTAINS HEADNOTES. HEADNOTES ARE NOT AN OFFICIAL PRODUCT OF THE COURT, THEREFORE THEY ARE NOT DISPLAYED.] [*678]
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [EDITORS' NOTE: THIS PAGE CONTAINS HEADNOTES. HEADNOTES ARE NOT AN OFFICIAL PRODUCT OF THE COURT, THEREFORE THEY ARE NOT DISPLAYED.] [*679]
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [EDITORS' NOTE: THIS PAGE CONTAINS HEADNOTES. HEADNOTES ARE NOT AN OFFICIAL PRODUCT OF THE COURT, THEREFORE THEY ARE NOT DISPLAYED.] [*680]
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\
Sorraya Solages, William S. Berk, Melissa M. Sims, Berk, Merchant & Sims, PLC, Coral Gables, FL, for Plaintiff. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Steven David Ginsburg, Josephine Elizabeth Graddy, Atlanta, GA, Warren Daniel Zaffuto, Duane Morris, Miami, FL, Christopher Bopst, Buffalo, NY, Edward Joseph Pfister, Phillips Cantor & Berlowitz, P.A., Hollywood, FL, for Defendant. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 ORDER ON DEFENDANT'S MOTION FOR SANCTIONS FOR FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH  RULE 30(B)(6) 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 JONATHAN GOODMAN, United States Magistrate Judge. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\
This cause is before me on Defendant's Motion for Sanctions for Failure to Comply With Rule 30(b)(6). (ECF 70). The Court has reviewed the motion, Plaintiff's response (ECF 75) and the post-hearing submissions. The court also held a comprehensive hearing on January 6, 2012. For the reasons outlined below, the Court grants in part and denies in part the motion. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 I. Introduction 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 This motion requires the Court to confront the following issue: what consequences should flow from a plaintiff insurance company's failure to designate a witness to bind the corporation under Fed.R.Civ.Pro. 30(b)(6) when (1) it lacks knowledge of several topics listed in the corporate deposition notice because it is pursuing a subrogation claim assigned to it by its insured, (2) it has no material of its own to review for certain topics and has no employees or agents with the requisite knowledge, (3) it cannot prepare a designee on certain topics because the insured (who presumably does have knowledge of the issues) refuses to cooperate with the insurer even though it received payments and is under a contractual obligation to cooperate, and (4) the discovery deadline has expired? 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 There is surprisingly little authority on this question, though there is authority on a more-common question which is also present in the motion: what happens if a party fails to adequately prepare its own designee, who does not review all available materials, and the sole designee proclaims that he is not being produced to provide testimony on some of the topics listed in the notice? 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 As outlined below in the factual background section of this Order, Plaintiff QBE Insurance Corp., which is pursuing a subrogation claim against Jorda Enterprises, Inc., a plumbing subcontractor, after paying more than $3 million on a water damage claim to an insured condominium association, is embroiled in both types of scenarios. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 First, in response to a 30(b)(6) corporate deposition notice listing 47 topics, QBE produced one witness, a claims examiner, and announced for the first time at the [**2] deposition that its designee did not have knowledge on many issues but agreed to produce another corporate representative who would have the requisite knowledge. QBE intended to secure one or more representatives from the [*681]insured condominium association, but that plan was thwarted. Nevertheless, the one representative it did produce was unable to adequately answer questions on many topics and he reviewed only a small portion of the documents which QBE had or had access to before the deposition. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 For this first scenario, sanctions are appropriate. Because the discovery deadline has expired, because QBE did not fulfill its obligation to properly prepare its own designee, because QBE waited until the corporate representative deposition began to give notice of its designee's partial inadequacy and because its designee could have (but did not) review substantially more material in order to be a more-responsive witness, Defendant's requested sanction will be imposed. Specifically, QBE will be precluded from offering any testimony at trial on the subjects which its designee was unable or unwilling to testify about at the 30(b)(6) deposition. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Second, because this is a subrogation case, QBE is not directly familiar with many of the underlying facts and was relying on its insured to consent to be the corporate representative designee for many of the issues listed in the 30(b)(6) corporate deposition notice. According to QBE, but for reasons not provided to the Court, the insured has refused to cooperate with QBE, even after receiving a written demand threatening to sue the insured condominium association for breach of the cooperation clause in the insurance contract. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 For this second scenario, the result will be the same \'97 precluding QBE from introducing any testimony at trial on the subjects which it hoped its insured would have testified about had it agreed to send a representative to the corporate representative deposition. This result is not a sanction, however, because the 30(b)(6) sanctions apply only if the corporation has collective corporate knowledge but refuses to produce and/or adequately prepare a representative. Instead, it is a natural consequence of QBE's inability to obtain knowledge from its insured on the relevant subjects listed in the 30(b)(6) notice. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 It would be patently unfair to permit QBE to avoid providing a corporate deposition designee on certain topics (because its insured refuses to cooperate) yet allow it to take a position at trial on those very same issues by introducing testimony which Defendant Jorda was unable to learn about during a pre-trial 30(b)(6) deposition. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 This Order will, in the analysis section, pinpoint the specific issues on which QBE will be precluded from offering trial testimony. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 By way of a final introductory note, the Court will award some attorneys fees to Defendant Jorda in connection with its motion. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 II. Factual Background 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 In late September 2004, QBE issued a commercial lines insurance policy to The Club at Brickell Bay Condominium Association, [**3] Inc., a not-for-profit Florida corporation, covering certain losses at a luxury high-rise condominium complex. (ECF 1). In late August, 2005, the insured sustained water damage to the property. QBE now contends that the water damages were caused by a failed PVC pipe installed by Defendant Jorda. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Pursuant to the insurance policy, QBE ultimately (after litigation) paid its insured approximately $3.029 million and then filed this two-count Complaint against Jorda for common law indemnity and equitable subrogation. Jorda denies the claims and asserts myriad affirmative defenses. (ECF 21). Jorda contends that any negligence on its part must be apportioned and reduced by the insured's own negligence and the negligence of other contractors and subcontractors. It also contends that QBE stands in the shoes of its insured, which voluntarily and intentionally destroyed material evidence, failed to timely provide notice and failed to give Jorda notice and an opportunity to cure the alleged construction defects or other damages. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 QBE filed its lawsuit in April 2010. (ECF 1). The water damages at issue in the lawsuit occurred in late August 2005. On January 6, 2011, U.S. District Judge Alan S. Gold issued a trial scheduling Order (ECF 28), setting the trial for the calendar beginning December 19, 2011 and establishing a July 29, 2011 deadline for all non-expert discovery. On May 20, 2011 (ECF 41), Judge Gold [*682]issued an Order granting the parties' joint motion to extend the pretrial and trial dates. In this Order, Judge Gold scheduled the trial for the calendar period beginning June 4, 2012 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 and extended the non-expert discovery deadline to December 30, 2011 \'97 the deadline the parties themselves suggested. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 On October 17, 2011, Jorda issued its Re-Notice of Taking Deposition Pursuant to Fed.R.Civ.Pro. 30(b)(6), designating 47 topics on which a QBE designee would provide testimony to bind QBE. Thirty-five of the 47 topics concerned electronically stored information (ESI), sometimes termed, albeit informally, email discovery. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 QBE did not object to any of the 12 non-ESI topics. It did not contend that the topics were beyond the scope of discovery, it did not object to the wording of the listed topics and it did not suggest that the descriptions were vague or in any way unworkable. Although it threatened Jorda with a stated intent to file a motion for a protective order concerning the 35 ESI topics, it never did so (and it never filed a motion for protective order as to any of the other topics). At a later hearing, Jorda explained that QBE issued a similar discovery request, designating virtually the same ESI topics in its reciprocal 30(b)(6) deposition notice. Jorda suggests that QBE backed down from its threat to file a motion for protective order because QBE sought the identical discovery. Whatever the reason for its decision not to pursue the informally threatened motion for protective order, the important fact for present purposes is that QBE never sought a protective order or any other, similar relief from the Court regarding Jorda's Rule 30(b)(6) deposition notice. [**4] 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 After some squabbling about deposition scheduling, the parties ultimately agreed to a November 14, 2011 30(b)(6) deposition date. QBE provided only one designee for the 47 topics noticed for the corporate representative deposition: Timothy O'Brien, the senior claims representative for Florida Intracoastal Underwriters, QBE's managing general agent in Florida. FIU is an independent company, not an affiliate or subsidiary of QBE. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Shortly after the deposition began, Jorda learned for the first time that Mr. O'Brien would not be QBE's representative for many of the 47 topics (and would not be the designee for any of the 35 topics concerning ESI). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Although during the deposition QBE and Mr. O'Brien collectively advised Jorda that Mr. O'Brien was not the appropriate corporate designee for several of the first twelve non-ESI topics, Mr. O'Brien actually did provide testimony on some of the issues for which he was not designated as "the person with the most knowledge."[fn1] But Mr. O'Brien testified for approximately 6 hours at the corporate representative deposition and failed to provide competent testimony on several other topics. Jorda now contends it is prejudiced by QBE's failure to provide an adequate designee with knowledge of all topics. The specific topics which were not addressed by QBE's sole corporate representative and the particular prejudice alleged by Jorda will be discussed with specificity below, in the section detailing the results of the 30(b)(6) deposition. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 QBE's counsel promised to designate another 30(b)(6) witness but never did so. On November 22, 2011, QBE's counsel instructed Jorda to notice the continuation of the 30(b)(6) deposition and agreed to produce an appropriate (albeit not yet identified) designee. In particular, QBE advised that it is "still waiting on a name" but directed Jorda to notice the rescheduled 30(b)(6) deposition and advised "we will produce a witness." 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Relying upon this commitment, Jorda issued another 30(b)(6) deposition notice, scheduling the continuation of the deposition for Monday, December 12, 2011. On the Friday before the scheduled Monday deposition, an attorney representing QBE's insured advised that his client would not be providing a witness for the deposition. As a result, QBE's counsel appeared at the December 12, 2011 deposition, but no corporate designee appeared. [*683]
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Jorda filed its sanctions motion on December 21, 2011 (ECF 70). In its opposition (ECF 75), QBE attached copies of emails between its counsel and counsel for the insured condominium association and between its counsel and Jorda's counsel. The first email it attached reflecting communications with the insured's counsel is dated November 23, 2011. On November 23, 2001, the insured's counsel advised QBE that he was "still trying to get a name from the client" and that "I do not have response from the client." A week later, on November 30, 2011, QBE's counsel sent an email to Jorda's counsel, advising that it was still "awaiting a name" but noting that "the corporate representative will be a current Board member." On the same date, QBE's counsel [**5] also wrote to the insured's counsel, asking if he was "able to secure an individual so we can provide counsel a name?" 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The next day, on December 1, 2011, frustrated by the insured's failure to disclose a name for a 30(b)(6) witness, QBE wrote to the insured's counsel, saying, "If we fail to receive a name from Club by tomorrow, Jorda and/or QBE will have no choice but to bring action against Club as a result of the violation and seek Court intervention to compel Club's cooperation." (emphasis added) (ECF 75-1). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 On December 6, 2011, Jorda's counsel wrote to QBE's counsel, attaching the re-notice of taking 30(b)(6) deposition and making the following request: "if there is some problem between QBE and its insured in producing a qualified witness, let me know before I spend the money on the plane ticket." 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 After receiving the re-notice, QBE's counsel forwarded it (almost immediately) to its insured's counsel, asking him to confirm that the December 12, 2011 deposition was going forward with a condominium association witness who QBE would use as its designee. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Instead of confirming that the insured would produce an appropriate representative (whether it be a current board member or someone else), the insured's counsel provided a succinct, one-sentence response: "The insured has not agreed to attend any deposition." He did not, however, provide a written response to QBE's litigation threat (made five days earlier). The insured's counsel also sent a copy of the "we're-not-appearing-at-the-30(b)(6)-deposition" email to Jorda's counsel, who then advised that QBE's counsel had previously advised to the contrary and noted that he would "leave it to you and them to work out any differences between you." 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 A few minutes after this exchange, QBE's counsel wrote to Jorda's counsel, suggesting that a subpoena might help and asking Jorda whether it or QBE should issue the subpoena to the condominium association. In response, Jorda contended that it is not required to subpoena a QBE 30(b)(6) witness and noted that the rule requires the designee to consent to testify on QBE's behalf. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 On December 9, 2011, Jorda requested confirmation about the continued 30(b)(6) deposition scheduled for December 12, 2011, but QBE did not respond. Jorda attended the 30(b)(6) deposition, but, as noted above, neither QBE nor its insured arranged for a designee to appear. Likewise, neither QBE nor its insured arranged for a corporate designee to appear for the continued 30(b)(6) deposition before the December 30, 2011 discovery cutoff. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 At the hearing, in response to questions from the Court, QBE advised that its insured has a contractual duty to cooperate with QBE but that QBE did not file the threatened lawsuit or take any other enforcement action after its insured announced (in the December 6, 2011 email from its counsel) that it would not be providing a witness for the continued 30(b)(6) deposition. QBE also advised that its insured's counsel candidly acknowledged that he was himself having difficulty communicating with his condominium association client. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 III. The Parties' Contentions 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Jorda has little sympathy for QBE's inability [**6] to procure an adequate 30(b)(6) witness on the designated topics and seeks sanctions.[fn2] 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [*684] First, notwithstanding QBE's failure to arrange for a representative of its insured to appear as QBE's designee for many of the issues of the 30(b)(6) list, Jorda argues that QBE inadequately prepared its own designee Mr. O'Brien on topics which Mr. O'Brien should have been able to testify about had he been sufficiently prepared. And Jorda faults QBE for taking several months to arrange for this deposition in the first place. It also criticizes QBE for not advising it of Mr. O'Brien's now-acknowledged limitations \'97 i.e., he was not produced to provide testimony on many of the subjects listed \'97 until afterthe deposition began. Jorda further condemns QBE for not ensuring that Mr. O'Brien reviewed the significant amounts of available written material, thereby aggravating his lack of preparation. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Second, concerning the subjects for which QBE expected a condominium association board member to appear as its designee, Jorda blasts QBE for doing too little, too late. Jorda argues that QBE waited until the eleventh hour before taking affirmative steps to secure a representative from its insured. It also contends that QBE knew it might be difficult to procure an association witness several months earlier, when it confronted a similar "but-our-insured-hasthe-information" scenario when responding to written discovery requests. According to Jorda, QBE should have timely confronted what it deems an obvious issue. Had QBE done so, Jorda argues, QBE would have had time to respond to its insured's intransigence and take the necessary steps to compel its cooperation or make other arrangements. In addition, Jorda notes that QBE did even not follow through on its belated threat to pursue a claim against its insured after the insured refused to comply with its contractual obligation to cooperate with QBE in pursuing this subrogation claim. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Notwithstanding its ultimate inability to produce an association witness capable of testifying as to all the listed 30(b)(6) topics, QBE rejects the notion that sanctions are warranted. It notes that Mr. O'Brien testified for six hours, which means that Jorda would have had only one additional hour in which to ask questions about the other remaining issues.[fn3] QBE contends that it and its designee acted in good faith and that Mr. O'Brien did the best job he could under the circumstances. QBE rejects the idea that Mr. O'Brien should have reviewed hundreds or thousands of pages of transcripts and other materials and contends that his review [*685]of summaries provided by others is sufficient preparation. QBE also takes issue with the alleged scope of Mr. O'Brien's alleged inability to provide testimony to bind the corporation and suggests that Jorda has exaggerated his deficiencies, taken certain statements out of context and/or otherwise provided a slanted and unfair view of his deposition. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [Given this discrepancy over Mr. O'Brien's adequacy as a 30(b)(6) witness, the Court asked Jorda to submit a list pinpointing his deficiencies [**7] and explaining why this prejudiced Jorda and how it would undermine its trial preparation. Jorda filed the list (ECF 97). The Court also gave QBE the opportunity to respond to this list, which it did (ECF 100)]. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 For many of the topics, QBE contends (ECF 100) that it "never possessed" certain records because it is "only the insurer." Therefore, according to QBE, "the knowledge and documents belonged to a non-party [i.e., the insured condominium association] and QBE had no obligation under 30(b)(6) to gain knowledge it would have never had to begin with." 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Concerning the 35 topics of electronically stored information listed in the 30(b)(6) notice, QBE takes the position (ECF 100-1) that "Defendant abandoned the discovery after QBE indicated its intent to file a Motion for Protective Order on the record at deposition and an explanation as why the requested information was relevant/discoverable and Defendant never provided said explanation or indicated it was pursuing this information." 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 In other words, QBE argues waiver for these 35 topics. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The Court has reviewed the entire transcript of Mr. O'Brien's six-hour deposition and finds that he was able to competently testify as QBE's corporate representative designee on some of the 47 topics. But Mr. O'Brien was completely unable to provide deposition answers to questions covering the 35 ESI-related topics (which QBE's counsel candidly acknowledged at the start of the deposition). He was similarly unable to provide corporate designee testimony of several of the initial 12 non-ESI topics. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Although QBE does not believe that any sanctions are necessary to compensate for its designee's inability to provide testimony on many subjects, it basically agrees with the conclusion that the practical result of this inability is QBE cannot provide trial testimony on those subjects. Specifically, QBE's counsel provided the following concession at thehearing:
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 So as to the first 12 topics, you know, not only did he testify to the best that he could, he is the QBE guy. And if he says, "I don't know," QBE is bound with that answer, and I don't think anybody would debate that, but when it comes to trying to get information that is solely within the possession of a third-party, and they are not consenting and we cannot subpoena them under the rule, we shouldn't be sanctioned and have testimony stricken that we couldn't even present anyway if we don't have evidence of it. (ECF 93, p. 47) 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 (emphasis added). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Likewise, QBE's counsel also noted that, "to the extent as to QBE, [he testified] "I don't know," and that's QBE's answer." (ECF 93, p. 48) (emphasis added). QBE repeated the concession later in the hearing, as well, saying, "If they don't have knowledge of the categories that are listed within in the ones that I referenced the first 12 as it pertains to QBE, if they don't have the knowledge, then there is not going to be evidencepresented on it." (ECF 93, p. 98) (emphasis added). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Thus, QBE effectively agrees with the relief sought by Jorda concerning the categories its designee said he did not know about \'97 preclusion of trial testimony. QBE's nuance, however, is that this remedy should [**8] not be designated as a sanction. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 QBE also argues that it should not be sanctioned for its insured's refusal to cooperate because the knowledge is not known to it and it cannot be punished for another party's failure to comply with a contractual cooperation provision. It also contends that it acted diligently and in good faith and points to its litigation threat against the association as evidence of its diligence. [*686]
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 In practical terms, QBE takes the position that it is in a Catch-22 situation[fn4] because its own employees and/or agents do not have the knowledge necessary to provide testimony on all the 30(b)(6) categories, the corporation does not have (and never did have) the information available to prepare a designee, the party which does have the information (i.e., its insured) refuses to cooperate but forcing cooperation through a subpoena or lawsuit would be problematic because the insured's representative would not be consenting to appear if compelled by a subpoena. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Similarly, QBE's argument is, in effect, that it is caught between "a rock and a hard place"[fn5] QBE notes that it has no witness of its own to answer questions on some of the topics because this is a subrogation claim (where its insured, and not the insurance company, was involved in the underlying facts) and it cannot obtain the information and/or testimony from its insured even though the insured received more than $3 million 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 QBE argues that fundamental fairness principles militate against a sanctions award. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 QBE suggested that Jorda could obtain the remaining 30(b)(6) testimony not provided by Mr. O'Brien by serving the condominium association with a 30(b)(6) subpoena, which would require the association, QBE's insured, to produce one or more appropriate representatives at a deposition. But Jorda notes that it does not have the burden to serve subpoenas to obtain 30(b)(6) testimony from a party. Moreover, Jorda notes that the rule requires the served party to designate one or more persons "who consent" to testify on behalf of the served corporation. Thus, a person produced by the condominium association in response to a separate 30(b)(6) subpoena would not fulfill QBE's 30(b)(6) obligation because the person would not be consenting to appear on behalf of QBE. At the hearing, QBE suggested that this practical dilemma could be obviated by having QBE agree in advance to accept the testimony of the association's designee (or designees) as its own. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 But QBE has not served the association with a 30(b)(6) subpoena and, as noted, the discovery deadline has now expired. Moreover, QBE did not explain what consequences would arise if the association failed to produce a designee or if the designee were unable to provide adequate testimony or if [*687]the association did not sufficiently prepare its designee. In other words, the association might confront sanctions for its failure to fulfill its 30(b)(6) corporate deposition subpoena obligation, but how would that help Jorda prepare to defend at trial against a lawsuit filed by QBE? In addition, QBE did not explain what would happen at trial if the [**9] association's designee provided illogical, outrageous, baseless or just plain odd testimony in a 30(b)(6) deposition. Would QBE be bound by those answers or could it take a different position at trial? How could Jorda effectively cross-examine an association designee at trial when the designee was appointed by the association, not by QBE? There is also a practical concern that the jury might consider that testimony as being provided solely on the association's behalf and not attributable directly to QBE. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 QBE did not provide or suggest answers to these types of practical issues, all of which could easily arise if QBE's creative suggestion were to be followed. And it did not provide any authority approving or even discussing this novel approach to a party's obligation to provide 30(b)(6) testimony. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 As if the situation were not already complicated enough, Jorda contends that QBE actually has two insureds \'97 the condominium association and the developer \'97 but QBE failed to ask the developer for documents, information and cooperation. QBE concedes that it took no steps after it filed this lawsuit to contact the developer. Nevertheless, it explained that it already had some of the developer's files in its possession from the prior litigation and as part of the standard turnover process (when the developer turns over control of the association from itself to the condominium owners). But this information only serves to muddy the water even further because, unlike the association, which the parties agree is under a contractual obligation to cooperate with QBE in this subrogation action, no party advised the Court that the developer is similarly obligated. What is certain, however, is that QBE did not attempt to arrange for a developer representative to be QBE's 30(b)(6) designee and that it is possible that the developer may have been able to produce a witness who could comment on certain of the Rule 30(b)(6) topics on QBE's behalf. It is also possible that the developer might have had additional documents \'97 which either Mr. O'Brien or another QBE representative could have reviewed to bolster the preparation \'97 which had not previously been turned over to the condominium association. But neither QBE nor Jorda can represent to the Court what documents or information the developer has (or could locate) because QBE did not attempt to pursue this potential source of information and testimony after it filed this subrogation lawsuit. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 IV. The Law Concerning 30(b)(6) Depositions 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Fed.R.Civ.Pro. 30(b)(6) ["Notice or Subpoena Directed to an Organization"] provides, in pertinent part: 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 In its notice or subpoena, a party may name as the deponent a public or private corporation, a partnership, an association, a governmental agency, or other entity and must describe with reasonable particularity the matters for examination. The named organization must then designate one or more officers, directors, or managing agents, or designate other persons who consent to testify on its behalf; ... The persons designated must testify about information known or reasonably [**10] available to the organization.
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 (emphasis added). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 If the case law outlining the guiding principles of 30(b)(6) depositions could be summarized into a de facto Bible governing corporate depositions, then the litigation commandments and fundamental passages about pre-trial discovery would likely contain the following advice: 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 1. The rule's purpose is to streamline the discovery process. In particular, the rule serves a unique function in allowing a specialized form of deposition. Great Am. Ins. Co. v. Vegas Constr. Co., Inc., 251 F.R.D. 534, 539 (D. Nev. 2008) 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 2. The rule gives the corporation being deposed more control by allowing it to designate and prepare a witness to testify on [*688]the corporation's behalf. United States v. Taylor, 166 F.R.D. 356, 361 (M.D. N.C. 1996). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 3. It is a discovery device designed to avoid the bandying by corporations where individual officers or employees disclaim knowledge of facts clearly known to the corporation. Great Am., 251 F.R.D. at 539; Taylor, 166 F.R.D. at 361. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 4. Therefore, one purpose is to curb any temptation by the corporation to shunt a discovering party from "pillar to post" by presenting deponents who each disclaim knowledge of facts known to someone in the corporation. GreatAm., 251 F.R.D. at 539. Cf. Ierardi v. Lorillard, Inc., No. 90-7049, 1991 WL 66799, *2 (E.D. Pa. Apr. 15, 1991), at *2 (without the rule, a corporation could "hide behind the alleged 'failed' memories of its employees"). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 5. Rule 30(b)(6) imposes burdens on both the discovering party and the designating party. The party seeking discovery must describe the matters with reasonable particularity and the responding corporation or entity must produce one or more witnesses who can testify about the corporation's knowledge of the noticed topics. Great Am., 251 F.R.D. at 539. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 6. The testimony of a Rule 30(b)(6) witness represents the collective knowledge of the corporation, not of the specific individual deponents. A Rule 30(b)(6) designee presents the corporation's position on the listed topics. The corporation appears vicariously through its designees. Taylor, 166 F.R.D. at 361. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 7. A corporation has an affirmative duty to provide a witness who is able to provide binding answers on behalf of the corporation. Ecclesiastes9:10-11-12, Inc. v. LMC Holding Co., 497 F.3d 1135, 1147 (10th Cir. 2007). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 8. Thus, a Rule 30(b)(6) witness need not have personal knowledge of the designated subject matter. Ecclesiastes, 497 F.3d at 1147; seegenerally Federal Civil Rules Handbook, 2012 Ed., at p. 838 ("the individual will often testify to matters outside the individual's personal knowledge"). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 9. The designating party has a duty to designate more than one deponent if necessary to respond to questions on all relevant areas of inquiry listed in the notice or subpoena. Ecclesiastes, 497 F.3d at 1147; Marker v. UnionFidelity Life Ins. Co., 125 F.R.D. 121, 127 (M.D. N.C. 1989) (duty to substitute another witness as a designee once the initial designee's deficiencies become apparent during the deposition); Alexander v. F.B.I., 186 F.R.D. 137, 142 (D.D.C. 1998). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 10. The rule does not expressly or implicitly require the corporation or entity to produce the "person most knowledgeable" for the corporate deposition. Nevertheless, many lawyers issue notices and subpoenas which purport to require the producing party to provide "the most knowledgeable" witness. Not only does the rule [**11] not provide for this type of discovery demand, but the request is also fundamentally inconsistent with the purpose and dynamics of the rule. As noted, the witness/designee need not have anypersonal knowledge, so the "most knowledgeable" designation is illogical. PPM Fin., Inc. v. Norandal USA, Inc., 392 F.3d 889, 894-95 (7th Cir. 2004) (rejecting argument that trial court should not have credited the testimony of a witness who lacked personal knowledge because the witness was a 30(b)(6) witness and "was free to testify to matters outside his personal knowledge as long as they were within the corporate rubric"). Moreover, a corporation may have good grounds not to produce the "most knowledgeable" witness for a 30(b)(6) deposition. For example, that witness might be comparatively inarticulate, he might have a criminal conviction, she might be out of town for an extended trip, he might not be photogenic (for a videotaped deposition), she might prefer to avoid the entire process or the corporation might want to save the witness for trial. From a practical perspective, it might be difficult to determine which witness is the "most" knowledgeable on any given topic. And permitting a requesting party to insist on the production of the most knowledgeable witness could lead to time-wasting disputes over the comparative level of the witness' knowledge. For example, if the rule authorized a demand for the most knowledgeable witness, then the [*689]requesting party could presumably obtain sanctions if the witness produced had the second most amount of knowledge. This result is impractical, inefficient and problematic, but it would be required by a procedure authorizing a demand for the "most" knowledgeable witness. But the rule says no such thing. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 11. Although the rule is not designed to be a memory contest, the corporation has a duty to make a good faith, conscientious effort to designate appropriate persons and to prepare them to testify fully and non-evasively about the subjects. Great Am., 251 F.R.D. at 540. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 12. The duty to prepare a Rule 30(b)(6) witness goes beyond matters personally known to the designee or to matters in which the designated witness was personally involved. Wilson v. Lakner, 228 F.R.D. 524 (D. Md. 2005). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 13. The duty extends to matters reasonably known to the responding party. Fowler v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co., No. 07-00071 SPK-KSC, [2008 BL 259542], 2008 WL 4907865, at *4 (D. Haw. 2008). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 14. The mere fact that an organization no longer employs a person with knowledge on the specified topics does not relieve the organization of the duty to prepare and produce an appropriate designee. Id.; Great Am., 251 F.R.D. at 540; Taylor, 166 F.R.D. at 362; cf. Ecclesiastes, 497 F.3d at 1148 (in "one common scenario," the corporation designates individuals who lack personal knowledge "but who have been educated aboutit") (emphasis added). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 15. Faced with such a scenario, a corporation with no current knowledgeable employees must prepare its designees by having them review available materials, such as fact witness deposition testimony, exhibits to depositions, documents produced in discovery, materials in former employees' files and, if necessary, interviews of former employees or others with knowledge. Great Am., 251 F.R.D. at 540; Federal Civil [**12] Rules Handbook, p. 838; see generally Wilson, 228 F.R.D. at 529 (preparation required from myriad sources, including "documents, present or past employees, or other sources"). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 16. In other words, a corporation is expected to create an appropriate witness or witnesses from information reasonably available to it if necessary. Wilson, 228 F.R.D. at 529. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 17. As a corollary to the corporation's duty to designate and prepare a witness, it must perform a reasonable inquiry for information that is reasonably available to it. Fowler, [2008 BL 259542], 2008 WL 4907865 at *5; Marker, 125 F.R.D. at 127. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 18. A corporate designee must provide responsive answers even if the information was transmitted through the corporation's lawyers. Great Am., 251 F.R.D. at 542. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 19. In responding to a Rule 30(b)(6) notice or subpoena, a corporation may not take the position that its documents state the company's position and that a corporate deposition is therefore unnecessary. Great Am., 251 F.R.D. at 540. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 20. Similarly, a corporation cannot point to interrogatory answers in lieu of producing a live, in-person corporate representative designee. Marker, 125 F.R.D. at 127. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 21. Preparing a Rule 30(b)(6) designee may be an onerous and burdensome task, but this consequence is merely an obligation that flows from the privilege of using the corporate form to do business. Great Am., 251 F.R.D. at 541; see also Calzaturficio S.C.A.R.P.A. s.p.a. v. FabianoShoe Co., Inc., 201 F.R.D. 33, 38 (D. Mass. 2001) (review required even if "documents are voluminous and the review of those documents would be burdensome"). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 22. Not only must the designee testify about facts within the corporation's collective knowledge, including the results of an investigation initiated for the purpose of complying with the 30(b)(6) notice, but the designee must also testify about the corporation's position, beliefs and opinions. Great Am., 251 F.R.D. at 539; Taylor, 166 F.R.D. at 362 (designee presents corporation's "position," its "subjective beliefs and opinions" and its "interpretation of documents and events"). [*690]
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 23. The rule implicitly requires the corporation to review all matters known or reasonable available to it in preparation for a Rule 30(b)(6) deposition. Wilson, 228 F.R.D. at 529 ("good faith effort" to "find out the relevant facts" and to "collect information, review documents and interview employees with personal knowledge"). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 24. If a corporation genuinely cannot provide an appropriate designee because it does not have the information, cannot reasonably obtain it from other sources and still lacks sufficient knowledge after reviewing all available information, then its obligations under the Rule cease. Calzaturficio, 201 F.R.D. at 39; see also Dravo Corp. v. Liberty Mut. Ins.Co., 164 F.R.D. 70, 76 (D. Neb. 1995). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 25. If it becomes apparent during the deposition that the designee is unable to adequately respond to relevant questions on listed subjects, then the responding corporation has a duty to timely designate additional, supplemental witnesses as substitute deponents. Alexander, 186 F.R.D. at 142; Marker, 125 F.R.D. at 127. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 26. The rule provides for a variety of sanctions for a party's failure to comply with its Rule 30(b)(6) obligations, ranging from the imposition of costs to preclusion of testimony and even entry of default. Reilly v.Natwest Mkts. Grp. Inc., 181 F.3d 253, 269 (2d Cir. 1999) (affirming order precluding witness five witnesses [**13] from testifying at trial); see alsoTaylor, 166 F.R.D. at 363 ("panoply of sanctions"); Great Am., 251 F.R.D. at 543 ("variety of sanctions").[fn6]
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 27. The failure to properly designate a Rule 30(b)(6) witness can be deemed a nonappearance justifying the imposition of sanctions. ResolutionTrust Corp. v. Southern Union Co., Inc., 985 F.2d 196, 198 (5th Cir. 1993)). See also Black Horse Lane Assoc., L.P. v. Dow Chem. Corp., 228 F.3d 275, 305(3d Cir. 2000) (a 30(b)(6) witness who is unable to give useful information is "no more present for the deposition than would be a deponent who physically appears for the deposition but sleeps through it"). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 28. When a corporation's designee legitimately lacks the ability to answer relevant questions on listed topics and the corporation cannot better prepare that witness or obtain an adequate substitute, then the "we-don't-know" response can be binding on the corporation and prohibit it from offering evidence at trial on those points. Phrased differently, the lack of knowledge answer is itself an answer which will bind the corporation at trial. Fraser Yachts Fla., Inc. v. Milne, No. 05-21168-CIV-JORDAN, 2007 WL 1113251, at *3 (S.D. Fla. Apr. 13, 2007); Chick-Fil-A v. ExxonmobilCorp., No. 08-61422-CIV, 2009 WL 3763032, at *13 (S.D. Fla. Nov. 10, 2009); see also Ierardi, 1991 WL 66799 at *3 (if party's 30(b)(6) witness, because of lack of knowledge or failing memory, provides a "don't know" answer, then "that is itself an answer" and the corporation "will be bound by that answer"). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 29. Similarly, a corporation which provides a 30(b)(6) designee who testifies that the corporation does not know the answers to the questions "will not be allowed effectively to change its answer by introducing evidence at trial." Ierardi v. Lorillard, No. 90-7049, 1991 WL 158911 (Aug. 13, 1991) (E.D. Pa. 1991, at *4).[fn7]
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 30. The conclusion that the corporation is bound at trial by a legitimate lack of knowledge response at the 30(b)(6) deposition is, for all practical purposes a variation on the rule and philosophy against trial by ambush. Calzaturficio, 201 F.R.D. at 38; Wilson, 228 F.R.D. at 531; Taylor, 166 F.R.D. at 363 (rule prevents "sandbagging" and prevents corporation from making a "half-hearted inquiry before the deposition but a thorough and vigorous one before the trial"). [*691]
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 31. If the corporation pleads lack of memory after diligently conducting a good faith effort to obtain information reasonably available to it, then it still must present an opinion as to why the corporation believes the facts should be construed a certain way if it wishes to assert a position on that topic at trial. Taylor, 166 F.R.D. at 362. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 32. There is nothing in the rule which prohibits a corporation from adopting the testimony or position of another witness in the case, though that would still require a corporate designee to formally provide testimony that the corporation's position is that of another witness. Fraser Yachts, 2007 WL 1113251, at *3. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 33. The rule does not expressly require the designee to personally review all information available to the corporation. So long as the designee is prepared to provide binding answers under oath, then the corporation may prepare the designee in whatever way it deems appropriate \'97 as long as someone acting for the corporation reviews the available documents and information. Reichold, Inc. v. U.S. Metals Ref. Co., No. 03-453 (DRD),2007 WL 1428559, at *9 (D.N.J. May, 10, 2007) (the rule "does not require that the corporate [**14] designee personally conduct interviews," but, instead, requires him to testify to matters known or reasonably available to the corporation). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 34. Rule 30(b)(6) means what it says. Corporations must act responsibly. They are not permitted to simply declare themselves to be mere document-gatherers. They must produce live witnesses who have been prepared to provide testimony to bind the entity and to explain the corporation's position. Wilson, 228 F.R.D. at 531; Great Am., 251 F.R.D. at 542 (entitled to "corporation's position"). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 35. Despite the potentially difficult burdens which sometimes are generated by Rule 30(b)(6) depositions, the corporation is not without some protection, as it may timely seek a protective order or other relief. C.F.T.C. v. Noble Metals Int'l, Inc., 67 F.3d 766, 772 (9th Cir. 1995). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 36. Absolute perfection is not required of a 30(b((6) witness. The mere fact that a designee could not answer every question on a certain topic does not necessarily mean that the corporation failed to comply with its obligation. Costa v. City of Burlington, 254 F.R.D. 187, 191 (D.N.J. 2008); Chick-Fil-A, 2009 WL 3763032, at *13 (explaining that the corporation need not produce witnesses who know every single fact \'97 only those relevant and material to the incidents underlying the lawsuit. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 37. A corporation cannot be faulted for not interviewing individuals who refuse to speak with it. Costa, 254 F.R.D. at 192. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 38. There are certain cases, such as subrogation cases or those involving dated facts, where a corporation will not be able to locate an appropriate 30(b)(6) witness. In those types of scenarios, the parties "should anticipate the unavailability of certain information" and "should expect that the inescapable and unstoppable forces of time have erased items from ... memory which neither party can retrieve." Barron v. Caterpillar, Inc., 168 F.R.D. 175, 178 (E.D. Pa. 1996) (concluding that corporation did not act in bad faith when its designee did not remember events from almost thirty years earlier). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 39. A corporation which expects its designee to be unprepared to testify on any relevant, listed topic at the corporate representative deposition should advise the requesting party of the designee's limitations before the deposition begins. Calzaturficio, 201 F.R.D. at 39. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 V. The 30(b)(6) deposition of Timothy O'Brien 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 a. Continued Focus on His "Most Knowledgeable" Status 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 QBE produced Timothy O'Brien as its 30(b)(6) corporate deposition designee. Although the rule does not require a party to designate "the most knowledgeable" person as the representative it selects, does not require that the designee have any personal knowledge and does not limit the designee to the party's employees, counsel spent considerable time discussing whether Mr. O'Brien [*692]had the most knowledge on a certain topic and, if not, whether he knew the identity of the person who did have this often-discussed level of knowledge.[fn8] 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Mr. O'Brien explained (ECF 69-1, Dep. Tr. 14) that he is the person with the most knowledge about the authority to act on QBE's behalf on the claim because he was the file handler, and the file is, and was always, under his control. Jorda asked him if QBE designated him as the person with "personal knowledge" of the matters listed in the 30(b)(6) notice. ([**15] ECF 69-1, Dep. Tr. 15-16). Mr. O'Brien explained that he would be the QBE designee with the most knowledge for some matters, but not for others. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 QBE's counsel then attempted to clarify Mr. O'Brien's role, explaining: "But when he's talking about being the person for QBE, he may be the person at QBE with the most knowledge of some of those areas. But some of these areas, because we're in subrogation, it would have to be something from the club, so that's clear. So he may \'97 if you want him to say whether he's the person with the most knowledge at all, then he can clarify it that way." (ECF 69-1, Dep. Tr. 16-17). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Mr. O'Brien then specified those topics for which he would be providing testimony to bind the corporation on a topic-by-topic basis. At times, he discussed whether he was "the person." At other times, he discussed whether he would be "the best" person to provide testimony. For other topics, he explained if he had "the most knowledge." And for other topics, he advised whether he was the "proper person" to testify for QBE or whether he "knows the most about what QBE knows" about a topic. (ECF 69-1, Dep. Tr. 19-28). For topics on which Mr. O'Brien said he was not the "proper" person or the "most knowledgeable" person, Jorda's counsel asked him (a non-QBE employee) to pinpoint who would be the proper person for QBE to designate. (ECF 69-1, Dep. Tr. 19, 242-250). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Jorda asked Mr. O'Brien whether he personally interviewed certain witnesses, such as members of the condominium associations's board of directors, association employees or members of the developer's board of directors. (ECF 69-1, Dep. Tr. 25-28). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [The questions, answers and comments about the "most knowledgeable" witness miss the mark. Jorda is not entitled to demand that QBE designate the most knowledgeable witness as its representative for the deposition. QBE is not required to produce the most knowledgeable witness as its designee. QBE's designee, Mr. O'Brien, does not determine who else QBE will or should designate for additional 30(b)(6) topics. Jorda may in deposition ask Mr. O'Brien (or other designees) for the names of other witnesses he deems most knowledgeable on certain topics so that Jorda may serve deposition subpoenas on those individuals, but they would be fact witnesses, not 30(b)(6) designees who testify on behalf of QBE. Moreover, it appears that Jorda asked Mr. O'Brien for his opinion on who would be most knowledgeable on designated topics for purposes other than learning the names of fact witnesses for possible non-30(b)(6) depositions]. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 At the end of six hours of deposition testimony, QBE's counsel advised that Mr. O'Brien "can only be the corporate rep. as to his role for FIU/QBE." (ECF 69-1, Dep. Tr. 249). This proclamation was incorrect, as Mr. O'Brien is not necessarily limited to providng 30(b)(6) testimony concerning his activities at FIU and his personal knowledge of QBE's activities. For example, if the condominium association had agreed to cooperate and had been willing to have an officer spend 10 hours with Mr. O'Brien, reviewing associaiton documents and teaching him association policies, then Mr. O'Brien could have been QBE's 30(b)(6) designee for topics concerning [**16] the association and its document retention policies. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Defense counsel also advised at the end of the deposition that she "had an email (presumably [*693]from the association's attorney)" and, based on that, "we [QBE] are getting somebody from the Club that I received today, so we will give you that individual in the near future." ( Id.) 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 b. The Extent of Mr. O'Brien's Preparation (and QBE's Preparation of Him) 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Mr. O'Brien spent seven or eight hours preparing for his 30(b)(6) deposition. Of that, three or hour hours were with QBE's counsel. He reviewed his file, the expert depositions, three examinations under oath and the summaries of the transcripts of tape-recorded statements taken by QBE's counsel. (ECF 69-1, Dep. Tr. 24-25, 85-86). Jorda notes that the summaries do not appear on QBE's privilege log, but has not moved to compel their production. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Mr. O'Brien did not personally interview any employees from the condominium associaiton or the developer entities. He did not review any association documents unless they were submitted as part of the claim in the underlying lawsuit, and he did not review any documents produced by the developer which were in QBE's possession. Mr. O'Brien did not review documents reflecting a lack of maintenance (by the condominium association and the developer) involving neglect of the heat pumps. (ECF 69-1, Dep. Tr. 103-14). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 c. Subjects on Which Mr. O'Brien Did Not Provide 30(b)(6) Deposition  Testimony 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Although Mr. O'Brien sometimes provided testimony about topics on which he initially said he would not be the corporate designee, there were some topics which he clearly and unequivocally designated as completely beyond his knowledge and/or preparation. Specifically, Mr. O'Brien testified that he could not provide informatin on any of the 35 e-discovery topics, including matters involving the retention and destruction of documents at QBE, the condominium association and the developer. (ECF 69-1, Dep. Tr. 21, 242-246). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Before outlining, in summary fashion, the listed topics for which Mr. O'Brien could not provide 30(b)(6) corporate designee testimony, it is useful to flag the underlying factual theories surrounding the parties' positions: 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 QBE contends that Hurricane Katrina had nothing to do with the water damage to the condominim building. In particular, QBE takes the position that the hurricane in no way caused a water pipe to separate. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 QBE's expert opined that the flood was caused by improper assembly of the water return pipe. QBE's expert opined that an inadequate amount of solvent cement was used on the return water piping connection. QBE also relies on the expert for its position that a fitting was not properly seated in the socket and the fitting was cut on a bias. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Jorda, on the other hand, suggests that the hurricane played a major role. Specifically, it notes that the door to the room containing the pipe was swinging open during the hurricane. In addition, Jorda contends that the condominium associaiton failed to turn off the water for many hours, thereby causing or aggravating water damage. Moreover, Jorda alleges that myriad other factors were [**17] responsible for the damage, including design flaws (in the cooling tower, pumping systems, electrical systems and the layout and drainage in the mechanical/electrical room), chronic failures to adequately maintain the property (including the heat pumps), misuse of equipment, improper installation of the pipe and failure to properly inspect the systems. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 In connection with these theories, Jorda also takes issue with the apparent lack of maintenance records \'97 a scenario which implicates its affirmative defense of evidence destruction/spoliation.[fn9] Jorda also contends that other contractors or subcontractors may have been negligent and that any alleged negligence by Jorda must be apportioned and reduced by this third party negligence. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Given that QBE already paid more than $3 million to the insured and given that Mr. O'Brien conceded that other parties could [*694]conceivably be potentially responsible for the damages, Jorda seeks information on how QBE came up with $3.02 million total payment to the insured, whether QBE apportioned responsibility for the damages and, if so, the apportionment calcuations it used. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Mr. O'Brien testified that QBE's position is that Jorda did not use a sufficient amount of glue on the pipe, did not properly install the pipe, failed to maintain the plumbing system and failed to take reasonable measures to avoid foreseeable damages. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Concerning topics 1, 5 and 7 (maintenance personnel responsible for the air conditioning system at the property after it was installed, procedures for inspecting and repairing the system, including procedures for emergencies, other factors which may have caused the flood and operation of the cooling tower, pumping systems and electrical systems and the possible loss of electrical power on the day in question and Jorda's purported responsibility for the damage), Mr. O'Brien could not provide 30(b)(6) testimony on the following issues: 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \'95 Any maintenance agreement obligating Jorda to maintain the air conditioning. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \'95 The procedures for emergencies, natural disasters, hurricanes, pipe bursts and valving off. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \'95 Incidents involving the air conditioning system. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \'95 The operation of the cooling tower, pumping systems and electrical systems. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \'95 The loss of electrical power on or about August 26, 2005 (i.e., the date of the damage and of Hurricane Katrina). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \'95 How QBE apportioned responsibility for the damages. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \'95 Jorda's affirmative defenses of the negligence of others. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Concerning topic 3 (persons who were responsible for observing or handling the HVAC pipe which separated or caused the flooding, the chain of custody surrounding the pipe and preservation of documents and other physical evidence), Mr. O'Brien testified that he was not the one to give testimony about retention and destruction of documents at the condominium association or the developer. (ECF 69-1, Dep. Tr. 244). He conceded that he did not ask anyone about these topics before the deposition. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Concerning topics 4 and 6 (documents regarding the claim and investigation of the original claim \'97 by the association \'97 and the [**18] settlement terms, how an agreement was reached and payments made by QBE, including backup documentation, all uses of QBE funds and reasons for non-payments), Mr. O'Brien was unable to provide 30(b)(6) testimony on the following: 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \'95 QBE's involvement in the settlement of the underlying state court action. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \'95 How QBE arrived at the $3.02 million figure it paid to the insured.[fn10]
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 For topic 8 (concerning the change in construction from an apartment to a condominium and notice of the change to Jorda and other subcontractors), Mr. O'Brien was unable to provide corporate designee testimony on any issue concerning the topic. He testified that he had no knowledge of the area and had not spoken about it with anyone before the corporate designee deposition began. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Finally, for the 35 topics concerning electronic discovery, Mr. O'Brien could not provide any testimony about that subject and did not know who at QBE would be in a position to provide corporate designee testimony. (ECF 69-1, Dep. Tr. 245-246). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 d. QBE's Stated Intent to Obtain a Witness From the Association 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 As the deposition unfolded and Mr. O'Brien's inability to provide adequate corporate designee testimony on all the listed topics became more apparent, QBE again explained that it had been trying to obtain the name of a condominium association witness from the association's attorney. "I've always intended to produce somebody separate," defense counsel noted. (ECF 69-1, Dep. Tr. 189). QBE also repeated its position that Mr. O'Brien could "only say what QBE knows" because its role is "limited" Nevertheless, [*695]she promised that "you're going to get somebody else for the association." 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 QBE did not say that it would obtain another witness from the developer. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 QBE was unable to predict when it would obtain the witness (or witnesses) from the association. "If I knew, I would be telling you," counsel explained. "Are we making every effort to get that person's name? Yes. I can only do what \'97 I can't go in there with, you know \'97 but our intent is to have someone separate for that, and we will get someone for that." (ECF 69-1, Dep. Tr. 190). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 But, as noted above, QBE was not able to obtain any witnesses from the association to provide deposition testimony in a continued 30(b)(6) deposition, notwithstanding a letter threating a lawsuit. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 e. Jorda's Claim of Prejudice From the Lack of 30(b)(6) Testimony 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Regardless of whether the omission was caused by Mr. O'Brien's lack of knowledge, QBE's failure to adequately prepare him, QBE's lack of collective corporate knowledge (and whether that gap could be filled through preparation and review of documents and other materials) or its inability to obtain testimony from its insured, Jorda contends that it is prejudiced by QBE's failure to provide testimony on the topics listed above. Jorda asserts many types of purported prejudice, but the most-relevant theories are: 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 1. It cannot provide its own experts with documents or testimony needed to demonstrate that the lack of maintenance or the failure to follow proper shut down procedures caused or contributed to the pipe separation and the resulting $3.02 million in damages. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 2. [**19] QBE has not provided the means for Jorda to obtain discovery on contributing causes and the negligence of others. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 3. Jorda has been prevented from obtaining discovery about the identity of material witnesses. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 4. QBE has prevented Jorda from obtaining discovery about a failure to mitigate damages. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 5. Jorda has not been provided testimony about how QBE apportioned the damages and whether it took into consideration the negligence of others.[fn11] 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 6. Jorda was unable to obtain from QBE testimony about the loss of electrical power and shutdowns which resulted in the surges and pressure and water temperature changes which Jorda's expert believes was the actual cause of the flood damage. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 7. Jorda's ability to pursue its spoliation affirmative defense, including the non-production of electronically stored information (ESI). Has been undermined or compromised.[fn12]
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 VI. Analysis 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Before assessing the record evidence against the applicable law concerning 30(b)(6) issues, the Court will first address two arguments asserted by QBE which are simply incorrect. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 First, QBE argues that Jorda abandoned the 35 ESI[fn13] categories after QBE "indicated [*696] its intent" to file a motion for a protective order by failing to explain why the information was relevant and by never "indicat[ing] it was pursuing this information." (ECF 100-1, p. 8). QBE's position is incorrect for several reasons: 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 QBE never filed the motion for protective order. In addition, QBE does not dispute the responsive argument that Jorda, in effect, called QBE's bluff by pointing out that QBE requested similar ESI information from Jorda. QBE never raised the purported objection to the 35 ESI topics with the Court after Jorda advised it to, in effect, pull the trigger and file the motion if it deemed it to be meritorious. Not only did Jorda not waive the subjects at the 30(b)(6) deposition of Mr. O'Brien, but it affirmatively asked questions about document retention and ESI. (Dep. Tr., p. 246). Moreover, QBE did not object to the question and Mr. O'Brien answered the question (albeit by saying he was not the "most knowledgeable" on those 35 topics and did not know who would be the most knowledgeable witness." (Dep. Tr., pp. 245-246). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Thus, Jorda did not abandon its efforts to obtain 30(b)(6) testimony on these 35 topics. These topics are relevant and discoverable, especially given Jordan's affirmative defense advocating a spoliation theory. Marker, 125 F.R.D. at 126 (party sought 30(b)(6) witness on "general file keeping, storage and retrieval systems"). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Second, QBE is likewise incorrect when it repeatedly argues, in a post-hearing, topic-by-chart (ECF 100-1), that it had no 30(b)(6) obligation to obtain knowledge from non-parties to the litigation. As succincly explained by the Tenth Circuit Court of Appeals in Ecclesiastes, the "contention that [a party] operated under a good-faith belief that it could decline to make Rule 30(b)(6) designations because it lacked control of potential designees strains credulity." 497 F.3d at 1147. The Court noted that a party's duty is "not negated by a corporation's alleged lack of control over potential Rule 30(b)(6) deponents" because a party is required [**20] to produce a knowledgeable deponent, regardless of whether the designee is a party's officer or employee or a "third-party" who has been "woodshedded" and "educated" by the responsive party." Id. at n. 13. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Therefore, QBE was obligated to seek out information and documents from available third party sources \'97 including its insured, the condominium association. The duty was particualry applicable here, where the association was contractually obligated to cooperate with QBE as part of a settlement agreement. Simply stated, the rule imposes a duty to provide testimony on matters known or "reasonable available" to the corporation. Just like a corporation would be required to review documents in possession of its accountant[fn14]in order to comply with its 30(b)(6) duty, QBE was similarly obligated to review information available to it from the association and the developer. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 As it turned out, of course, QBE did seek information and testimony from its insured but, through no apparent fault of QBE, its insured refused to cooperate. Therefore, QBE is incorrect on the law (it did have the duty to at least seek information available from the association) but the mistake is not legally significant on the sanctions front because it pursued the testimony and information notwithstanding its current stated legal position that it had no obligation to do so in the first place. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Because QBE is pursuing a subrogation claim based on rights which its insured assigned to it, QBE was confronted with some discovery requests for which it lacks knowledge and for which it cannot obtain necessary information to review. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Assuming that QBE timely pursued efforts to obtain information and testimony from its insured, the condominium association, and further assuming that it diligently exhausted those efforts, it cannot be "sanctioned" under a discovery misconduct theory for failure to [*697]provide adequate 30(b)(6) testimony on topics which its insured (but not QBE) has information. Rule 30(b)(6) requires a corporation or entity to produce a designee who will provide testimony about information "known or reasonably available" to the corporation. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Thus, if QBE does not know certain information because it is pursuing a subrogation claim (and does not always have witnesses who were factually involved at the time and who do not have all the documents generated at the time) and cannot obtain the information (because its insured has refused to cooperate even though it is contractually obligated to do so and was threatened with litigation for failing to comply), then QBE's 30(b)(6) obligation has been extinguished. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 On the other hand, if QBE failed to adequately prepare its own designee (i.e., Mr. O'Brien) by failing to review available documents or not interviewing available witnesses or not spending sufficient time itself or not causing Mr. O'Brien to devote more time to the project, then its 30(b)(6) obligation would not be extinguished. Likewise, if it failed to designate other available witnesses to supplement Mr. O'Brien's limited 30(b)(6) testimony, then its obligation would not be [**21] satisfied either. And if QBE waited until the eleventh hour to seek cooperation from its insured or failed to seek information, documents and cooperation from its other insured (the developer) or failed to explore other remedies (e.g., serving its insured with a formal demand letter or informally and consistently negotiating with the association's counsel) concerning the association, then its obligation would similarly remain open. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 QBE could have selected any appropriate designee. It could have arranged for Mr. O'Brien to spend more than seven or eight hours preparing for deposition as the sole corporate designee on a 47-topic notice. It could have caused Mr. O'Brien to review additional documents. It could have arranged for others to review all available documents and then educated Mr. O'Brien on the findings. It could have designated additional witnesses besides Mr. O'Brien to be QBE's designee. It could have chosen someone other than Mr. O'Brien to be the sole designee. What it could not do, however, was produce Mr. O'Brien as its only designee, wait until the deposition started before providing notice that Mr. O'Brien would not be the corporate designee for many unobjected-to topics and then permit Mr. O'Brien to be the only designee without reviewing other material (which would have enabled him to provide testimony on QBE's behalf). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Because of the way the O'Brien deposition unfolded, it is difficult to pinpoint with particularity those precise subjects on which Mr. O'Brien had absolutely no information, those where he had incomplete information and those where he knew he was the designee but failed to review certain records. At times, Mr. O'Brien announced that he would not be providng testimony on certain listed topics but then his testimony later actually covered some of those very same topics. It is also difficult to flag with precision those topics where Mr. O'Brien knew of other potential witnesses who he reasonably believed could be used as a supplemental 30(b)(6) witness, as opposed to those topics where he simply tossed out a possible name as a helpful guess. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Despite this somewhat hazy record, there are some points on which there is no dispute: 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 a. QBE never produced another 30(b)(6) witness other than Mr. O'Brien. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 b. QBE never produced any witnesses from the condominium association as 30(b)(6) designees, to supplement Mr. O'Brien's admittedly incomplete corporate representative deposition. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 c. QBE never produced any witnesses from the developer as 30(b)(6) designees to follow through on the gaps left by Mr. O'Brien. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 d. The discovery cutoff expired on December 30, 2011. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 e. QBE argues against "sanctions" but its counsel conceded at the hearing that it would not be able to take a different position at trial if Mr. O'Brien said he lacked sufficient information upon which to provide testimony about QBE's "position" on certain topics. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Because the ultimate relief is the same regardless of whether QBE itself failed to [*698]comply with its 30(b)(6) obligations or extinguished its duty when its insured refused to cooperate, the 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Court does not believe [**22] it is critical to specify, on a topic-by-topic basis, which topics involve a failure to adequately prepare and which topics concern a genuine lack of knowledge (i.e., in the words of the rule, the matters were not "known or reasonably available" to QBE). Regardless of which scenario is involved, QBE will not be able to take a position at trial on those issues for which Mr. O'Brien did not provide testimony. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 This relief is triggered either as a sanction (for failing to comply with the 30(b)(6) obligations) or as a natural consequence of not having a pre-trial position on certain topics. It would be fundamentally unfair if QBE did not provide 30(b)(6) testimony on certain matters, proclaimed a lack of its own knowledge, advocated that the association's refusal to cooperate should not impact it and then at trial take affirmative positions on these topics and seek to introduce evidence against Jorda. QBE impliedly recognized the inequity inherent in this type of trial scenario when it agreed that it would be bound by Mr. O'Brien's lack of knowledge. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Based on a thorough review of Mr. O'Brien's entire 30(b)(6) deposition transcript and the hearing transcript, the Court finds that QBE did not for certain topics adequately prepare Mr. O'Brien for his 30(b)(6) deposition, did not timely advise Jorda of Mr. O'Brien's limitations before the deposition began, and did not cause Mr. O'Brien or other QBE attorneys, employees or agents to review other documents in its possession or available to it. By way of example only, Mr. O'Brien said he could not provide testimony about QBE's document retention policies (but could provide testimony about FIU's policies). But QBE surely could have educated Mr. O'Brien on its policies so that he could speak on behalf of QBE, or it could have designated a QBE exmployee to be an additional designee.[fn15] 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 On the other hand, the Court acknowledges that QBE is in an inherently awkward situation. QBE is on the horns of a dilemma because the subrogation nature of this lawsuit means that QBE sometimes did not have the same level of knowledge as a party involved in the underlying events (e.g., QBE was not involved in the design, inspection, maintenance or repair of the air conditioning system, was not present at the insured condominium during Hurricane Katrina and has no direct knowledge of what happened or whether other third parties caused the damages or contributed to them) but must still respond to a 30(b)(6) notice requiring it to designate a representative to testify about its collective corporate knowledge. To compound the undesirable scenario it finds itself in, QBE assumed it would be obtaining information and an appropriate designee from its insured, the condominium association, which should have some knowledge of the topics on the 30(b)(6) list but which refuses to cooperate. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Because QBE does not challenge the relief of precluding trial testimony on topics for which QBE did not provide 30(b)(6) testimony, the Court grantsthe motion to the extent Jorda seeks that remedy. Consequently, QBE will not be able to take a position at trial \'97 including [**23] the introduction of testimony and exhibits \'97 on the topics listed in this Order as those on which Mr. O'Brien did not provide 30(b)(6) testimony. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The Court will also grant the motion by entering a costs and attorneys fee award against QBE as a sanction for not complying with its 30(b)(6) obligation. However, the Court will not award all the fees and costs [*699]incurred by Jorda in connection with this motion because a part of 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 QBE's inability to provide adequate 30(b)(6) testimony resulted from its lack of knowledge and related inability \'97 despite asking \'97 to obtain information and knowledge from an uncooperative third-party source, a scenario in which its obligations are extinguished. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The Court is "itself an expert on the question [of determining an hourly rate for attorneys fees] and may consider its own knowledge and experience concerning reasonable and proper fees and may form an independent judgment either with or without the aid of witnesses as to value." Norman v. HousingAuth., 836 F.2d 1292, 1303 (11th Cir. 1988). Moreover, the Court prefers to avoid the potentially time-consuming litigation which might be generated on the purely collateral matter of the amount of the expense award under Rule 37.[fn16]
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Therefore, the Court concludes that $2,300.00 is an appropriate expense award for Jorda's motion for sanctions, counsel's preparation for, and attendance at, the hearing, and Jorda's filing of a supplemental post-hearing memorandum (which required a careful review of a deposition transcript in excess of 250 pages). In fact, the Court considers this be a conservative estimate of the reasonable attorneys fees incurred in connection with the sanctions portion of this motion (as opposed to the Catch-22 situation where QBE lacked knowledge and could not obtain the cooperation of its insured). In calculating the award, the Court took into consideration the fact that QBE's inability to produce a 30(b)(6) witness on all 47 topics was partially caused by its insured's failure to cooperate.[fn17] 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The Court concludes that this amount is reasonable and fair. However, if any party [*700]objects to the amount of the award, they may, within 3 days of this Order, file a motion for an evidentiary hearing and simultaneously file as an attachment to the motion the time and billing records of all attorneys at the law firm in connection with this motion to compel. The Court will timely schedule an evidentiary hearing requested under this procedure. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 QBE shall pay this $2,300 award to Jorda within 14 days of this Order.[fn18] 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 VII. Conclusion 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Jorda's motion is granted in part and denied in part. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 QBE is precluded from taking a position at trial, including the introduction of testimony and exhibits, on those issues for which Mr. O'Brien was unable to provide 30(b)(6) testimony. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 QBE shall pay Jorda $2,300 within 14 calendar days of this Order. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn1] Counsel often invoked the "person most knowledgeable" phrase during the 30(b)(6) corporate deposition, but the rule contains no such phrase. More on this later, in the section entitled "The Law Concerning 30(b)(6) Depositions." 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn2] Depending on the nature of the sanction actually imposed, a United States Magistrate Judge has authority to enter a sanctions order (as opposed to a report and recommendation). Gomez v. Martin Marietta Corp., 50 F.3d 331511, 1519-20 (10th Cir. 1995) (rejecting argument that magistrate judge ruled on dispositive motion because litigant sought entry of a default judgment and explaining that "[e]ven though a movant requests a sanction that would be dispositive, if the magistrate judge does not impose a dispositive sanction," then the order is treated as not dispositive under Rule 72(a)); Wright, Miller & Marcus, Federal Practice and Procedure: Civil 2d \'a7 3068.2, at 342-44 (West 1997). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 A recent case illustrates a magistrate judge's ability to enter a significant discovery sanction order when the effect is not similar to a default judgment or to preclude a defense. In Moore v. Napolitano, 723 F.Supp.2d 167 (D.D.C. 2010), the district judge affirmed a magistrate's discovery sanctions order. In doing so, the district court rejected the argument that the magistrate judge entered a "severe sanction akin to a litigation-ending default judgment" and affirmed the magistrate judge's order precluding the defendant from offering any legitimate, nondiscriminatory reason to rebut any prima facie case of disparate treatment discriminatory non-promotion of the individually named plaintiffs in an employment discrimination case. See also Carmona v. Wright, 233 F.R.D. 270, 276 (N.D.N.Y. 2006) (magistrate judges permitted to enter sanctions orders for discovery violations because they are "generally non-dispositive matters" unless the order imposes a sanction which "disposes of a claim; e.g., striking pleadings with prejudice or dismissal"); ExxonCorp. v. Halcon Shipping Co. Ltd., 156 F.R.D. 589 (D.N.J. 1994) (magistrate judge's order precluding expert witness from testifying as a sanction for violation of a pretrial discovery order was reviewed under the clearly erroneous or contrary to law standard of review); San Shiah Enter. Co., Ltd.v. Pride Shipping Corp., 783 F.Supp. 1334 (S.D. Ala. 1992) (magistrate judge authorized to impose Rule 11 sanctions). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn3] Fed.R.Civ.Pro. 30(d)(1) limits a deposition to one day of 7 hours, unless otherwise stipulated to the by the parties or ordered by the Court. The parties here have not advised the Court of any agreement to take depositions of more than seven hours, have not asked the Court to enter an order allowing a longer deposition, and the Court has not entered such an order. To the contrary, QBE argued at the hearing that this 7-hour limit is still binding and suggests that this time limit militates against Jorda's motion. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn4] A Catch-22 scenario is one involving "a problematic situation for which the only solution is denied by a circumstance inherent in the in the problem." It is also defined as an "illogical, unreasonable or senseless situation." http://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/catch-22 (last visited January 13, 2012). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The term "Catch-22" originates from a military regulation in a 1961 novel of the same name written by Joseph Heller. Popularized after the 1970 movie of the same name, the "catch" is that a bomber pilot is insane if he flies combat missions without asking to be to be relieved from duty and is thus eligible to be relieved from duty. But if he asks to be relieved from duty, that means he is sane and must keep flying combat missions. http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/catch-22 (last visited January 27, 2012). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn5] To be caught between a rock and a hard place is a situation where you have to choose between two possible actions, both of which are dangerous, unpleasant or unacceptable. http://www.ldoceonline.com/dictionary/Scylla-and-Charybdis (last visited January 17, 2012). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 For a musical reference to this type of unenviable scenario, see "Rock and a Hard Place," a 1989 song by the Rolling Stones, released on its "Steel Wheels" album. The Rolling Stones recorded the album in Montserrat and London. Written by Mick Jagger and Keith Richards, the song contains the chorus: "stuck between a rock and a hard place." 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The phrase "to be caught between a rock and a hard place" is a reference to Odysseus' dilemma of passing between Scylia and Charybdis. Syclia was a monster on the cliffs and Charybdis was a monster whose actions personified a dangerous whirlpool. Both were exceedingly difficult to overcome. http:wwww.english-for-students.com/A-rock.html (last visited January 17, 2012). In particular, Scylla was a supernatural creature, with 12 feet and 6 heads on long, snaky necks. Charybdis, who lurked under a fig tree on the opposite shore, drank down and belched forth the waters three times a day and was fatal to shipping. http://www.britannica.com/EBchecked/topic/530331/Scylla-and-Charybdis (last visited January 17, 2012). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The now-disbanded rock group "The Police" sang about these two mythological monsters in "Wrapped Around Your Finger," a song on the "Synchronicity" album, released in June 1983. Written by Sting, the song contains the following lyric: "You consider me the young apprentice, caught between the Scylia and Charybdis." http:www.elyrics.net/read/p/police-lyrics/wrapped-around-your-finger-lyrics.html (last visited January 17, 2012). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn6] Requiring the responsive party to produce another 30(b)(6) deposition witness who is prepared and educated is a frequently-invoked sanction which is not available now in this case because the discovery cutoff has expired (and no one has filed a motion to extend the now-expired discovery deadline, and the Undersigned would not in any event be able to unilaterally change the deadlines imposed by U.S. District Judge Alan S. Gold). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn7] This Order cites two decisions from Ierardi: one from April 15, 1991 (1991 WL 66799) and one from August 13, 1991 (1991 WL 158911). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn8] Jorda's "re-notice of taking deposition pursuant to Fed.R.Civ.P. 30(b)(6)" purported to instruct QBE to "designate an individual or individuals with personal knowledge" to provide testimony on the listed topics. (emphasis added). QBE did not object to the "personal knowledge" component of the re-notice, though it surely could have taken issue with the so-called requirement in Jorda's re-notice. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn9] Jorda's fifteenth affirmative defense alleges that the condominium association and the developer, which assigned its rights to QBE, intentionally destroyed material evidence. According to Jorda, QBE is estopped from asserting subrogation claims. (ECF 21). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn10] Mr. O'Brien testified that Sanford Siegel, QBE's adjuster, would have that information, but Mr. Siegel advised Jorda, in his deposition, that he does not have that information. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn11] At the hearing on the motion for sanctions, QBE's counsel announced that the amount of money it decided to pay its insured was a "negotiated settlement" and that "there may not be a precise apportionment." (ECF 93, p. 71). By way of general summary, QBE's counsel noted that "ultimately it [i.e., the amount QBE decided to pay] was a business decision to settle the claim, and they just paid an amount." Therefore, in response to Jorda's request for documents detailing the settlement breakdown, QBE's counsel explained that "there is no such list that is going to say how this 2.7 million or $3,000,000 that was paid is itemized. It is not an itemized amount." (ECF 93, pp. 72-73). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn12] Jorda has submitted a list identifying documents which QBE never produced or never explained or identified as having been destroyed. (ECF 97-1). Jorda lists 15 categories of documents on the list, including tapes from the security cameras at the insured's condominium during and after Hurricane Katrina, the daily maintenance logs for the air conditioning system, work orders for the air conditioning system, the emergency or hurricane procedures, the water shut off procedures and the manuals for the air conditioning system. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn13] Although the parties typically refer to the 35 topics as subjects relating to electronically stored information (ESI), the first of the 35 topics does not expressly concern ESI, and it actually covers traditional, paper-type documents. Specifically, topic 1 is: "the person at [condominium association] who is the most knowledgeable about the retention and destruction of documents of [the condominium association]." 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn14] Calzaturficio, 201 F.R.D. at 40. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn15] At the hearing, Jorda noted that Mr. O'Brien reviewed, at most, 4,000 documents out of a possible universe of almost 26,000 documents. It is unclear whether Jorda actually intended to refer to 26,000 separate documents or 26,000 pages of documents. Either way, its point is that Mr. O'Brien's preparation (or QBE's preparation of him) was inadequate and could have been significantly improved had the available materials been timely reviewed. According to Jorda, reviewing less than 20% of the available material is presumptively inadequate. In addition, Jorda also complains that it took QBE two months to provide a date for the 30(b)(6) deposition. Had QBE been more nimble and provided an earlier date, then the discovery deadline might not have expired by the time the motion for sanctions was filed. In any event, neither QBE nor Jorda has filed a motion to extend the discovery deadline. That motion would need to be filed before the Honorable Alan S. Gold, as the Undersigned does not have the authority or the inclination to unilaterally change a discovery deadline established by the district court judge. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn16] This expense award is not premised on a finding of bad faith. Rather, it is merely the expense-shifting consequence which Rule 37 requires when a motion is granted and the limited exceptions are inapplicable. Likewise, this expense award is not a disciplinary sanction against counsel. First, it is imposed against the party, QBE, not its counsel. Second, as noted, it is only the implementation of the mandatory expense-shifting mechanism of the Rule. Therefore, counsel would not be required to disclose this award if asked (by, for example, an insurance carrier, a judicial nominations commission, a prospective employer, etc.) whether a court has ever imposed a disciplinary sanction on them. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn17] Jorda argues that QBE did not extinguish its obligations concerning its failure to procure testimony from its insured because it began its efforts too late, did not pursue the requested cooperation with sufficient diligence and because it failed to contact the developer. For the most part, the Court rejects this argument. The deposition transcript and emails demonstrate that QBE's counsel undertook efforts to obtain testimony from the condominium association before Mr. O'Brien's deposition. In addition, the Court concludes that QBE was surprised when the insured belatedly announced, through a cryptic email from its counsel that it would not be providing a witness. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The Court also does not find fault with QBE's failure to actually file the threatened lawsuit against its insured (in order to compel the association to provide witness testimony as a designee of QBE). The rule speaks about a designee who "consents" to provide testimony on the party's behalf, and a witness who appears because of a lawsuit is likely not a witness who has provided the requisite consent. Moreover, QBE could be at risk if it agreed to have the association select one of its employees (or officers or directors) as QBE's designee after the association were named in a QBE-initiated lawsuit. It is not difficult to imagine a scenario where the association-selected designee would be biased against QBE and (either intentionally or subconsciously) then provide testimony which undermined QBE's litigation position. But this potentially problematic scenario never arose because the insured condominium association never provided an appropriate witness to serve as QBE's designee after its counsel received the email threatening litigation. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Despite these risks, QBE announced its willingness to accept in advance an association-selected witness to be QBE's corporate 30(b)(6) designee on topics concerning the association's knowledge of the remaining topics on the list. (ECF 93, p. 40-41). Setting aside the issues of whether a witness produced by the association would be a sufficient 30(b)(6) designee for QBE(because the rule requires consent from the witness) and whether QBE might later attempt to rescind its agreement to be bound by the association's witness if the witness were to testify to matters which QBE deems to be incorrect or inconsistent with its position, QBE tried to comply with its obligation in this subrogation context by, in effect, blindly agreeing to be bound by whatever testimony the witness provided. Under these circumstances, Jorda's claim that QBE did not diligently or adequately comply with its 30(b)(6) duty concerning its efforts to secure cooperation from its insured is unpersuasive. Fraser Yachts, 2007 WL 1113251 at *2 ("there is nothing in the Rule that prohibits a corporation from adopting the testimony or position taken by other witnesses in a case"). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 On the other hand, QBE does not get a free pass for not bothering to contact its other insured, the developer. It may well be that the developer would have also refused to provide a witness to testify on QBE's behalf as a designee, but QBE should have at least made the request. The Court has factored all of these considerations into its fees award. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn18] Although QBE objects to the conclusion that sanctions are appropriate and also objects to an award of fees, it concedes the ultimate substantive relief concerning evidence and positions at trial. The Court appreciates QBE's candor in agreeing that it is bound at trial by the "I-don't-know" answers of its only designee and that it cannot take a contrary position at trial (because it would result in unfair sandbagging of Jorda). Judges and legal scholars have championed the wisdom of making a concession, either on the law or the facts. For example, nationally-known Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals Judge Richard Posner advises lawyers to not display a "lack of candor by refusing to make unavoidable concessions." Richard Posner, Convincing a Federal Court of Appeals, ABA Section of Litigation (May 2008), available at http://www.uslaw.com/library/Litigations/Convincing Federal CourtAppeals.php?item#137130 (registration required). QBE's counsel should be commended for his candid comments at the hearing. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 For an entertainment-based version of this philosophy, see The Gambler, a song made into a hugely popular hit by singer Kenny Rogers. In that song, Mr. Rogers sings, "you got to known when hold 'em, know when to fold 'em." Kenny Rogers, The Gambler (United Artists 1978). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb566\sa1133\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0          
\f0\fs42 General Information\

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 Judge(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Jonathan Goodman\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Related Docket(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 1:10-cv-21107 (S.D. Fla.);\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Topic(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Civil Procedure; Damages & Remedies\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Date Filed\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 2012-01-30 00:00:00\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Parties\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 QBE INSURANCE CORPORATION, Plaintiff, v. JORDA ENTERPRISES, INC., Defendant.\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Case Type\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 SO\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Court\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 United States District Court for the Southern District of Florida\cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\li674\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\fs20 \cf0 Pagination \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 *
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 BL
\f1\fs24 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\li674\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 United States District Court, M.D. Florida \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 TELEDYNE INSTRUMENTS, INC., Teledyne, v. JAMES L. CAIRNS, ABYSSAL SYSTEMS, INC., KATHRYN F. KRAUSE and THE STILLWATER TRUST, Defendants. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Case No. 6:12-cv-854-Orl-28TBS \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 October 25, 2013. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
ORDER 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\
Thomas B. Smith, Magistrate Judge 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\
This case comes before the Court on the following motions: 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 1. Defendants' Motion for Miscellaneous Relief, Specifically Exclude Teledyne's Untimely Expert Reports and Related Testimony (Doc. 106); 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 2. Teledyne's Motion to Compel Production of Forensic Images and Devices and a Production Log (Doc. 109); 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 3. Defendants' Motion to Compel Entry on Teledyne's Privilege Log of Certain Documents Predating the Filing of the Lawsuit (Doc. 111); 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 4. Defendants' Motion for Miscellaneous Relief, Specifically to Exclude Expert Rebuttal Reports (Doc. 112); and 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 5. Teledyne's Amended Motion to Compel Production of Forensic Images and Devices and a Production Log (Doc. 120). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The Court has considered the motions, the papers which accompany them, and on October 3, 2013, heard argument from counsel. (Doc. 155). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 I. Background 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Teledyne Instruments, Inc. brings this action against Defendants Dr. James Cairns, Abyssal Systems, Inc., and the Stillwater Trust for declaratory relief, breach of contract, accounting, specific performance, conversion, tortious interference, and conspiracy. (Doc. 77). Teledyne alleges, inter alia, that, after resigning from his position with it in 2009, Dr. Cairns applied for a U.S. patent for an invention he worked on before leaving the company and that, under the terms of his contract with Teledyne, it rightfully owns any patent that might be issued for the invention. ( Id.). Teledyne also alleges that Dr. Cairns improperly made use of its confidential information. ( Id.). Defendants deny the material allegations of the complaint. (Docs. 84, 97). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 II. Teledyne's Motion to Compel: Forensic Images and Devices and a Production Log 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The first motion the Court will address is Teledyne's Amended Motion to Compel Production of Forensic Images and Devices and a Production Log (Doc. 120).[fn1] This motion has two purposes: first, Teledyne wants the opportunity to inspect certain electronic storage devices in possession of Defendants or, alternatively, forensically sound images of those devices; and second, Teledyne seeks a production log of certain documents Defendants have already produced. (Doc. 120, p. 1). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 A. Forensic Images and Devices 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Between June 3, 2013 and July 8, 2013, Defendants turned over more than 13,800 native files[fn2] in response to Teledyne's requests for production of documents. (Doc.120-5, \'b6 8). Each of these productions included a load file, referred to as a "DAT" file, containing metadata. ( Id., \'b6 8) The DAT files provided with Defendants' first two productions include only the beginning and ending Bates numbers for the documents. ( Id., \'b6 10) On June 21, Defendants produced a new DAT file "contain[ing] metadata for previously produced documents," along with a .pdf file containing a chart displaying the information in the DAT file. ( Id., \'b6 11; Doc. 120-1). This DAT file (the "Replacement DAT") contains, [*2] for each document, the beginning and ending Bates numbers, date created, date last modified, date last accessed, file name, and file path. (Doc. 120-5, \'b6 11; Doc. 120-2). The documents reflected in the Replacement DAT are stored on 18 different electronic storage devices (computers, external storage devices, and CD's) in Defendants' possession. (Doc. 145-1, \'b6 12). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Teledyne gave this information to its expert, Daniel L. Regard, who found that of the 3,490 documents listed in the Replacement DAT, 1,680 had a created, last accessed, or last modified date on or before December 31, 2009, which is the date Dr. Cairns' left Teledyne. (Doc. 120-5, \'b6 18). According to Mr. Regard, this "suggest[s] that [Dr.] Cairns came into possession of [these files] prior to the termination of employment." (Doc. 120-5, \'b6 21). Mr. Regard observed that the dates created, last modified, and last accessed in the Replacement DAT "are inconsistent with some of the data collected directly from the native files." (Doc. 120-5, \'b6 16). This "may indicate that certain files had a Created Date or Last Modified Date even earlier than reflected in the Replacement DAT file." ( Id., \'b6 16). He also noted that, of the documents with a last modified date preceding the created date, 525 had a created date earlier than December 31, 2009 and 904 had a created date in 2010 or 2011. ( Id. \'b6 21). This would "suggest that [Dr.] Cairns moved and/or created files within his possession to new storage devices during his employment with Teledyne and during the two-year period following his termination." ( Id., \'b6 21). Mr. Regard also extracted metadata from the native files[fn3] themselves and compared the dates indicated in that metadata to the dates in the Replacement DAT. ( Id., \'b6\'b6 23-28). He found that all 3,490 of the files had non-matching last accessed dates, and all but 172 had non-matching last created dates. ( Id., \'b6\'b6 25, 27). The last modified dates matched for 2,479 of the 3,490 files. ( Id., \'b6 26). According to Mr. Regard, "[w]ithout more information on how the Defendants extracted the date information reflected in the Replacement DAT file, and how the Defendants collected (and maintained) the files themselves, it is difficult to explain the[se] inconsistencies." ( Id., \'b6 28). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 On July 26, 2013, Teledyne requested Defendants to produce "a forensically sound duplicate of any forensic or logical image(s) of [the 18 electronic storage devices], and if a forensic or logical image was not made, produce a forensically sound duplicate of whatever electronic copy was made." (Doc. 120-3, p. 3). Teledyne also requested production "for forensic inspection and copying all original devices such as any computer(s), hard drive(s), thumb drive(s), and any other device(s) which contained files reflected on CAA00014446 \'96 CAA00014532." (Doc. 120-3, p. 4). Defendants objected on the grounds that the parties had "agreed to a procedure for which they would produce Electronically Stored Information" and that "Defendants have already produced to Teledyne ESI in the format agreed to." (Doc. 120-3, p. 4). On August 30, Teledyne moved to compel production responsive to these two requests. It amended its motion to compel on September 11. (Docs. 118, 120). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Teledyne contends [*3] that it needs access to Defendants' electronic devices or forensically sound duplicates of those devices because the Replacement DAT, "in the view of [Teledyne's] expert Daniel L. Regard, reflects unreliable and/or erroneous information about the files in question." (Doc. 120, p. 3). Teledyne argues that the Replacement DAT, the chart, and the letter accompanying them failed to "explain in any way what the chart was intended to communicate." (Doc. 120, p. 2). Teledyne maintains that the chart (and thus the Replacement DAT) "contain[ed] metadata from native files previously produced by Defendants, which in many cases was different from and in other cases was not even included with the native files originally produced by Defendants." ( Id.) 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 In their response, Defendants note that the parties agreed to produce only native files, and not the devices where the files are stored. (Doc. 131, p. 4-5). Defendants also deny that there is any inconsistency in the data they produced. (Doc. 131, p. 6). They point to a declaration by their expert, Chad M. Gough, explaining that differences in dates from metadata on a file system and dates from metadata "collected directly from native files" are to be expected. (Doc. 131, p. 6; Doc. 131-11). Defendants also contend that many of the devices in question contain Dr. Cairns' private information which bears no relevance to this litigation. (Doc. 131, p. 7). Finally, Defendants argue that re-opening discovery as Teledyne requests would subject them to "a tremendous additional and unnecessary burden." (Doc. 131, p. 8). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 In its reply, Teledyne asserts that on August 31\'97the day after it filed its motion to compel\'97Defendants informed it that the Replacement DAT and chart were created from "system metadata as opposed to the metadata included in the native files." (Doc. 143, p. 2). Teledyne disputes that the information it is requesting will impose a burden on Defendants, and has offered to incur the expense for a third-party vendor to perform the inspection. (Doc. 145, pp. 3-4). It also takes exception to Defendants' accusation that it unjustifiably delayed in requesting production of the devices or a forensically sound duplicate. (Doc. 145, p. 3). Teledyne insists that it only learned of the need for further investigation upon receiving Mr. Regard's report identifying inconsistencies between the Replacement DAT and the metadata in the native files. (Doc. 145, p. 3). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Attached to Teledyne's reply is a second declaration by Mr. Regard which explains what Teledyne hopes to gain from inspection of the electronic devices. (Doc. 145-1). First, he says Teledyne will be able to verify the accuracy of the system metadata provided in the Replacement DAT. ( Id.) Second, Teledyne will be able to "examine a wide range of information ... far beyond the native files," from which it can "identify, verify, and trace Defendants' possession, use and modification of the files over time." ( Id.) Third, Teledyne intends to perform a "link file analysis, which can help determine whether files of interest were accessed or opened, when such files were accessed, and where the files resided." ( Id. p. 6). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Federal Rule of Civil Procedure [*4] 26 states that "parties may obtain discovery regarding any non-privileged matter that is relevant to any party's claim or defense," unless a court order provides otherwise. Fed.R.Civ. P. 26(b)(1). This broad authorization reflects the intent of the discovery rules that trials in federal courts should be a search for the truth and should not be "carried on in the dark." Hickman v. Taylor, 329 U.S. 495, 501 (1947). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Although the courts accord the discovery rules "a broad and liberal treatment,"  id. at 507, there are limits to what a party may discover. A court "must limit the frequency or extent of discovery" upon determining that what is sought is unreasonably cumulative or duplicative or more reasonably obtainable from another source; that the requesting party has had ample opportunity to obtain information; or that the burden of the proposed discovery outweighs the likely benefits, "considering the needs of the case, the amount in controversy, the parties' resources, the importance of the issues at stake in the action, and the importance of the discovery in resolving the issues." Fed.R.Civ.P. 26(b)(2)(C). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Requests for the production of documents and ESI are governed by Rule 34. Parties may serve on each other requests "to produce and permit the requesting party ... to inspect, copy, test, or sample ... designated documents or electronically stored information\'97including writings, drawings, graphs, sound recordings, images, and other data or data compilations"\'97that are in the other party's possession. Fed.R.Civ.P. 34(a)(1)(A). Requests for the production of ESI "may specify the form or forms in which the electronically stored information is to be produced." Fed.R.Civ.P. 34(b)(1)(C). But, unless the court orders otherwise, a party need not produce the same ESI in more than one form. Fed.R.Civ.P. 34(b)(2)(E)(iii). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Discovery in federal court is a "self-managed process." Inland American(LIP) SUB, LLC v. Lauth, No. 1:09-cv-00893-SEB-JMS, [2010 BL 35490], 2010 WL 670546, at *1 (S.D. Ind. Feb. 19, 2010). Here, the parties reached an agreement regarding the discovery of ESI. At a preliminary pretrial conference, they agreed that Defendants would give Teledyne native files and "let them ... tease out whatever metadata they want." (Doc. 41, pp. 17-18). On May 31, counsel for Teledyne referenced this agreement in a letter to counsel for Defendants. (Doc. 131-1) ("Teledyne agreed to accept them in that manner as an accommodation to Defendants, not because that is how Teledyne wanted them").[fn4]
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Teledyne argues that the parties' agreement was not intended to preclude them from requesting additional ESI if there is a "good reason" for doing so. Teledyne believes the alleged errors or inconsistencies in the metadata provided by Defendants constitute good reason. Defendants insist that there are no errors or inconsistencies in the metadata. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 At bottom, the parties' disagreement is one about the nature of metadata and what words mean. "Metadata" means data that describes other data. Netword, LLC v. Centraal Corp., 242 F.3d 1347, 1354 n.2 (Fed. Cir. 2001). Broadly speaking, there are two kinds of metadata: "application metadata" (also "document metadata") and "system metadata." (Doc. 131-11, \'b6\'b6 12-13; Doc. 145-1, \'b6\'b6 5, 6); The Sedona Conference Working [*5] Group on Electronic Document Production, The Sedona Principles: Best Practices Recommendations &Principles for Addressing Electronic Document production, p. 60 (2d. ed 2007) [hereinafter "Sedona Principles"], available at https://thesedonaconference.org/download-pub/81. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 "Application metadata is metadata created as a function of the application software used to create the document or file." Sedona Principles, p. 60. Application metadata may convey information to the computer about how to display a file (e.g. fonts and spacing), properties of the document itself (e.g. the file's author), or other information including comments and prior edits. Id.; (Doc. 131-11, \'b6 13; Doc. 145-1, \'b6 6). For some files, application metadata may also contain information about when a document was created, viewed, saved, or printed. See Eoghan Casey, Handbookof Digital Forensics and Investigation, p. 231 (1st ed. 2009). The information contained in application metadata depends on the type of file and the application used to create the file. Application metadata is part of the file itself, and when a file is moved or copied, the application metadata does not typically change but instead "moves with the file." (Doc. 131-11, \'b6 14; Doc. 145-1, \'b6 6); Sedona Principles, p. 60. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 System metadata is information created by a computer's operating system or by the user and which is maintained by the operating system. (Doc. 131-11, \'b6 12; Doc. 145-1, \'b6 5); Sedona Principles, p. 60. System metadata may identify a file's location in storage (its "path"), along with time and date stamps indicating when the file was created and when it was last opened or changed. (Doc. 131-11, \'b6 13; Doc. 145-1, \'b6 5); Sedona Principles, p. 60. System metadata is typically located on a different part of the computer's hard drive from the file itself. (Doc. 145-1, \'b6 5). Copying or moving a file alters system metadata. The file name or path must change, and other fields\'97such as date created and date last accessed\'97may change as well. (Doc. 120-5, \'b6 20; Doc. 131-11, \'b6 15). As Mr. Regard explains, when "a file is copied and then saved to a new location, it is treated as a new file and a new created date is set (i.e., as the date it is created in the new location)." (Doc. 120-5, \'b6 20). On Windows file systems, moving (by clicking-and-dragging or cutting-and-pasting) a file on the same device or between devices updates the accessed date, but not the created or modified date. Eoghan Casey, Digital Evidence and Computer Crime: Forensic Science,Computers, and the Internet, p. 525 (3d ed. 2011). 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 System metadata date and time stamps are not "convenient little recordings of user activity," but "references mostly used by the operating system for its own arcane purposes." John R. Vacca, Computer and Information SecurityHandbook, p. 582 (2d ed. 2012). Ordinary user activity can alter system metadata in ways that may seem counterintuitive. Casey, Handbook, at 230 ("The behavior of Windows date-time stamps can vary wildly depending on the exact action taken with a file or folder"). Merely placing the mouse over a file name in Windows Explorer can update a file's last accessed date. Id., p. 231. Software can also affect system metadata date and time stamps in [*6] different ways. Id., p. 230. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Comparing dates in application metadata with dates in system metadata is not an apples to apples comparison. For each file on a file system, the metadata will contain created, last modified, and last accessed dates. But application metadata will not necessarily contain corresponding fields, and even if it does, the application metadata may not convey the same information as the system metadata. Application metadata date stamps in Microsoft Office files, for example, are "much less susceptible to causal modification" than system metadata date stamps. Casey, Handbook, p. 232. And, generally speaking, file-system level activities like moving or copying a file will update one or more system metadata dates but leave application metadata dates unchanged. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Differences between application metadata dates and system metadata dates are therefore not unusual. A discrepancy between the system metadata date created and the application metadata date created does not mean that one or the other is "unreliable" or "erroneous" (Doc. 120, p. 3). Each more than likely reflects the correct date on which the "file" was created, depending on which sense of the word "file" is used. Casey, Handbook, p. 232. System metadata refers to the "file" in the sense of "that particular collection of data which is at this particular location in storage." Application metadata refers to the "file" in a more general sense\'97e.g., "this document, which was created by an attorney last Thursday on some other computer using Microsoft Word." 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Because system metadata date stamps and application metadata date stamps convey different information, discrepancies between them are not necessarily cause for concern or suspicion. Teledyne has not adequately explained why the discrepancies between system and application metadata[fn5] for the documents produced are cause for concern or suspicion in this case. Mr. Regard's report merely states that he cannot explain the discrepancies without more information, without explaining why these discrepancies cry out for further explanation or even suggesting that they are unexpected or unusual. (Doc. 120-5, \'b6 28). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 In his declaration\'97completed after Teledyne says it first learned that the native files contained system metadata[fn6] \'97Mr. Regard states that he "is not able to verify the accuracy of the operating system metadata dates" in the Replacement DAT, and that he could do this if given the opportunity to inspect the forensic copies of the 18 devices. (Doc. 145-1, \'b6\'b6 9, 11). He does not, however, express any opinion that the information in the Replacement DAT is inauthentic, and Mr. Gough's declaration states that the Replacement DAT "contains a true and accurate copy of the dates and times of the files contained in the forensic images of the Cairns media." (Doc. 131-11, \'b6 16). All Teledyne has offered to controvert this is the discrepancy with application metadata dates. Since application metadata dates and system metadata dates may diverge in the course of ordinary computer use, the discrepancies do not undermine the authenticity [*7] of the information in the Replacement DAT. Bald speculation as to the accuracy of the Replacement DAT dates is not "good reason" for allowing Teledyne more discovery than the parties bargained for. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Although counsel for Teledyne focused on the differences between application metadata and system metadata dates at the hearing, Mr. Regard made other findings in his report that arguably support Teledyne's request. Based on the system metadata in the Replacement DAT, Mr. Regard determined that "[Dr.] Cairns appears to have had possession of, for the period subsequent to December 31, 2009, documents that were originally created, modified or accessed during the course of [Dr.] Cairns' employment by Teledyne prior to his December 31, 2009 termination date." (Doc. 120-5, \'b6 16). Mr. Regard also opined that "[Dr.] Cairns appears to have modified or accessed certain files" after December 31, 2009. ( Id.). He concludes that Dr. Cairns probably "moved ... files within his possession to new storage device locations during his employment with Teledyne and during the two-year period following his termination." ( Id., \'b6 21). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 In other words, according to Mr. Regard, Dr. Cairns has files that he created before 2010; he has modified or accessed some of those files since 2010; and he moved some of those files to another device before and during 2010 and in 2011. These activities do not strike the Court as remarkable; indeed, they seem remarkably ordinary. These observations do not amount to "good reason" to broaden discovery beyond what the parties initially agreed. The Court does not doubt that Mr. Regard cannot conduct a proper forensic analysis "trac[ing] Defendants' possession, use and modification of the files over time" without forensic images of the 18 devices from which native files were produced and any other devices which may have contained the files in the past. But Teledyne is not entitled to such a forensic analysis. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Teledyne's offer to assume the cost of a vendor to perform the additional discovery does not change the outcome. Expanding the scope of discovery will still impose a significant financial burden on Defendants. According to Mr. Regard, the third-party vendor's examination is conducted "subject to the monitoring of the producing party." (Doc. 145-1, \'b6 17). Counsel, perhaps with the assistance of experts, will have to reach an agreement on exactly what the third party vendor can and cannot look for and turn over to Teledyne. Teledyne's expert may want to supplement his report based on the information found, and Defendants will have to consult their expert regarding any newly uncovered information and any newly disclosed opinions. This all costs money, and Teledyne has offered to pay only for the third-party vendor and, if necessary, creation of forensic images of the electronic storage devices. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Teledyne's request may also delay resolution of this case. Defendants' lawyer estimates that the requested discovery will take "months," and Teledyne did not offer a conflicting estimate. The forensic examination is not a one-off. Before it starts, counsel will have [*8] to negotiate its scope. After the examination is finished, Teledyne's expert may want to opine about what, if anything, the examination uncovers and then Defendants may want to designate an expert to rebut whatever Teledyne's expert has to say. And, compelling the production of Defendants' devices or forensic images of those devices will subject Defendants to the burden of producing the same ESI in more than one form. This is a burden a party should not ordinarily have to bear. Fed.R.Civ.P. 34(b)(2)(E)(iii).[fn7]
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Finally, it is speculative at best that Teledyne's search will uncover anything useful to its case. Teledyne asserts that it believes the table is "evidence, when understood and explained by its electronic data expert, that shows Dr. Cairns had possession of Teledyne's property, including Confidential Information, when he was not authorized to do so." (Doc. 120, p. 2). But, Mr. Regard has not stated or implied that the Defendants possessed or used Teledyne's confidential information. Teledyne has not identified any particular file thus far produced which contains its confidential information. "[W]hat Dr. Cairns had, when he had it, and when he modified it" (Doc. 145, p. 3) is only relevant to the extent Dr. Cairns actually had Teledyne's property, and Teledyne hasn't alleged that anything Defendants have produced so far meets that description.[fn8] Teledyne's request, which came barely a month before the discovery deadline, seeks to expand discovery well beyond the parameters agreed by the parties. Indeed, it is beyond what Teledyne sought even at the beginning of the case, when the parties were negotiating the scope and manner of ESI discovery. (Docs. 26-1, 41). Teledyne has not shown good reason why it should not be held to its agreement. Nor has Teledyne shown that the requested discovery is substantially likely to uncover relevant evidence. Finally, despite Teledyne's offer to pay certain discovery-related costs, allowing the requested discovery would unfairly prejudice Defendants. Therefore, Teledyne's motion to compel production of forensic images and devices is DENIED. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 B. Production Log 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Teledyne also moves to compel Defendants to provide a log organizing the documents they have produced to correspond to Teledyne's requests for production. (Doc. 120, pp. 4-5). Rule 34(b)(2)(E)(i) provides that, unless the parties stipulate or the Court orders otherwise, "[a] party must produce documents as they are kept in the usual course of business or must organize and label them to correspond to the categories in the request." Teledyne seeks a production log indicating, for each document produced by Defendants, which request for production the document is responsive to. (Doc. 120, p. 4\'96 5). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The production log requirement was added to the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure to "prevent part[ies] from obscuring the significance of documents by giving some structure to the production." Nolan, LLC v. TDC Int'l Corp., Civil Action No. 06-CV-14907-DT, [2007 BL 193497], 2007 WL 3408584, at *2 (E.D. Mich. Nov. 15, 2007) (citing Johnson v. Kraft Foods N. Am., Inc., 236 F.R.D. 535, 540 (D. Kan. 2006)). It forbids "dump truck" discovery tactics, where a party [*9] delivers voluminous and poorly organized documents to his adversary, who is forced to rummage through piles of paper in search of what is relevant. To comply with the rule, a party must "rationally organize[]" its productions, so that the requesting party "may readily identify documents, including ESI, that are responsive to [the] production requests." City of Colton v.American Promotional Events, Inc., 277 F.R.D. 578, 585 (C.D. Cal. 2011). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Defendants do not dispute the applicability of paragraph (i) to ESI and admit that they have not produced an organized and labeled production log. (Doc. 131, p. 9). Rather, they insist that they have produced their documents as they are kept in the ordinary course of business. ( Id.). Defendants contend that they accomplished this by serving on Teledyne a paper entitled "Defendants' Production Log," (the "Production Log") and accompanying attachments. (Doc. 120-8). The Production Log classifies the documents Defendants produced into three categories. "Category 1 documents" include "[e]lectronic files located on media in Dr. Cairns' custody, control, or possession." (Doc. 120-8, p. 1). These were "produced in their native format as agreed to by counsel as they were found in storage." ( Id.) "As a courtesy," Defendants provided a spreadsheet with "a listing of these files" that "includes metadata for each file identifying the Bates number, the date the file was created, the date the file was last modified, the date the file was last accessed, the name of the file, and [the] file path." ( Id.) "Category 2 documents" include "e-mails in Defendants' custody, control, or possession" that were "produced natively as agreed by counsel." ( Id.). Again "[a]s a courtesy," Defendants also provided "a searchable and sortable Excel spreadsheet (the "Production Log Category 2 Spreadsheet") listing the e-mails in chronological order and providing for each e-mail a Bates number, along with certain email metadata. ( Id.) "Category 3 documents" comprise e-mails and electronic documents that were not produced natively along with "all other production that ... did not exist in electronic format." ( Id., p. 2). The Production Log includes a table separating Defendants' production into Bates page ranges, and, for each range, indicating the production log category, custodian, and a brief description of the documents falling within the page range. ( Id., pp. 3-5). The issue is whether the Production Log and spreadsheets attached to it, in combination with the files Defendants previously produced, qualify as production as kept in the ordinary course of business. 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Because businesses have an incentive to keep their documents in a manner that allows ready access, a production of documents as kept in the ordinary course of business should permit a "systemized retrieval of relevant documents." Andritz Sprout-Bauer, Inc. v. Beazer East, Inc., 174 F.R.D. 609, 630 (M.D. Pa. 1997). This requires a party to organize its production in such a way as to enable the requesting party to substantially replicate the system used by the producing party, whether the production is ESI or paper documents. Pass & Seymour, Inc. v. Hubbell, Inc., 255 F.R.D. 331, 335(N.D.N.Y 2008). For example, if a party keeps [*10] responsive documents or ESI "in a way that makes it searchable by electronic means, the information should not be produced in a form that removes or significantly degrades this feature." Fed R. Civ. P. 34, Advisory Committee Notes, 2006 Amend. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 "The most obvious means of complying with the [usual course of business requirement] is to permit the requesting party to inspect the documents where they are maintained, and the manner in which they are organized by the producing party." Pass & Seymour, 255 F.R.D. at 336. For documents stored electronically, producing a forensic duplicate of a storage device is also sufficient. If a party chooses to produce files but not the devices (or forensic copies of the devices) on which the files are stored, the manner of production determines whether the files are produced as they are kept in the usual course of business. To satisfy the usual course of business requirement, the mode of production should preserve the functional utility of the electronic information produced. As the following discussion shows, this normally requires (1) preserving the format of the ESI[fn9] and (2) providing sufficient information about the context in which it is kept and used.[fn10] Production "as kept in the ordinary course of business" generally requires turning over electronic documents in the format in which they are kept on the user's hard drive or other storage device. A file that is converted to another format solely for production, or for which the application metadata has been scrubbed or altered, is not produced as kept in the ordinary course of business. See Bray & GillespieMgmt., LLC v. Lexington Ins. Co., 259 F.R.D. 568, 585 (M.D. Fla. 2009) (documents produced as TIFF images, with metadata removed and search functionality eliminated, not produced as kept in usual course of business), quashed in part on other grounds, No. 6:07-cv-02222-ORL-35-KRS, 2009 WL 5606058 (Nov. 16, 2009). If a document is maintained on a hard drive or in a storage device in the form in which it is created and edited (its "native" format, in the technical sense of the term), it must be produced in native format to be produced as it is kept in the ordinary course of business. See Dahl v. Bain Capital Partners, LLC, 655 F.Supp.2d 146, 150 (D. Mass 2009). Preservation of format is important because conversion from native format may eliminate or degrade search and other information processing features (e.g., copy, paste, and sort). Such features may allow a user to identify relevant information in a document much more quickly, which would significantly enhance the value of a document to a business. Allowing a party to defeat this functionality would undermine the purpose of producing information as it is kept in the usual course of business. Cf.Sedona Principles, p. 4 ("[S]tripping metadata and embedded data from files such as spreadsheets can substantially impair the functionality of the file and the accuracy of the production as a fair representation of the file as kept and used in the ordinary course of business.") 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Second, the producing party must provide information about where the documents are kept and how they are organized. Pass & [*11] Seymour, 255 F.R.D. at 334 (producing party must prove that "the documents produced were organized as they are regularly maintained"). For documents stored on a computer or external storage device, this means providing system metadata indicating at least the file name and path for produced files. Valeo Elec.Sys., Inc. v. Cleveland Die & Mfg. Co., No. 08-cv-12486, [2009 BL 130367], 2009 WL 1803216, at *2 (E.D. Mich. June 17, 2009); see also City of Colton v. AmericanPromotional Events, Inc., 277 F.R.D. 578, 585 (C.D. Cal. 2011); SedonaPrinciples, p. 60 ("[S]ystem metadata may allow for the quick and efficient sorting of a multitude of files by virtue of the dates or other information captured in metadata."). The files and system metadata, must be organized in a manner that "permits systemized retrieval" of files based on the metadata. Cf. Andritz Sprout-Bauer, 174 F.R.D. at 630. In other words, the requesting party must be able to search for and readily access files with particular characteristics (e.g. all .doc files in X folder).[fn11]
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 For emails, the relevant context is somewhat different. A user typically views emails not in a file browser, but in an email client. While the relevant organizational information for files viewed in a file browser is file name and path, the relevant information in an email client is the date the email was transmitted, perhaps along with the parties to the email (sender and recipients), and the subject line. SeeValeo, [2009 BL 130367], 2009 WL 1803216, at *2 (to be produced as kept in the usual course of business, emails must be arranged "by custodian, in chronological order and with attachments, if any"). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Citing Valeo, Defendants contend that they have met these requirements as to the Category 1 documents (non-email ESI produced as native files) by furnishing the spreadsheet providing the Bates number for the document along with system metadata identifying date created, date last modified, date last accessed, file name, and path. (Doc. 131, p. 10). In response, Teledyne protests that the documents were not produced "in the order they were on [Defendants' electronic] device[s]." (Doc. 145, p. 5). As Teledyne explains, 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [W]ithin the device '1TB Passport USB 3.0' ..., Defendants produced non-email documents Bates numbered CAA00000001-29, CAA00011319-13321, and CAA00000030\'96 88. This is obviously not a contiguous production from CAA00000001 to CAA00013321; the space from CAA00000089 to CAA00013319 is taken up by items from other places. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 (Doc. 145, p. 5). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Teledyne's argument based on the Bates numbers fails for two reasons. First, the jumps in the Bates numbers are not haphazard. For most of the devices, the files are arranged in alphabetical order by file path. For the other devices, the jumps in Bates numbering are attributable to the fact that some documents from the same directory were produced on different days. Taking the documents from the device "1TB Passport USB 3.0," for instance, documents numbered CAA00000001 through CAA00000088 were produced on June 3 (along with 11,851 documents from other devices), and documents numbered CAA00013319 through CAA00013321 were produced on June 12 (along with 2,437 documents from other devices). (Doc. 145, p. 5). All Category 1 documents [*12] produced on June 3 from device 1TB Passport USB 3.0 are Bates-numbered sequentially in alphabetical order by file path, and all the documents produced on June 12 from the device are Bates-numbered sequentially in alphabetical order by file path. As far as the Court can tell, the same pattern emerges for files produced from every other device except Desktop_HDD.[fn12] The upshot is that, for these devices, each of the two daily productions met the standard individually, but in combination, they fell short. By Teledyne's standard, if Defendants had produced all of the documents from these devices on one day, this would have been "a different story."[fn13] The Court does not understand why Defendants' decision to produce native file documents in two batches instead of one should be determinative. The fact that two documents from the same storage device are produced on separate days does not mean that the two documents are not produced as kept in the usual course of business.[fn14]
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Second, it is the production of system metadata (particularly the file path) and the ability to systematically retrieve files based on the system metadata, and not the Bates numbering, that determines whether electronically stored documents are produced as they are kept in the usual course of business. To see why this is true, imagine that Defendants had produced these documents in the order Teledyne deemed necessary, but provided no information about file name or path. Such a production would tell Teledyne next to nothing about how the produced files were kept in the usual course of business. The Bates number conveys no information about how or where the file is kept; it is simply an index that allows cross-referencing the system metadata in the spreadsheet with the separately-provided native file. The spreadsheet Defendants have produced meets the requirement set forth in Valeo. Accordingly, the motion to compel Defendants to furnish a production log for the Category 1 documents is DENIED. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Turning to the emails produced in native format (Category 2 documents), Teledyne contends that these documents could not have been produced as kept in the ordinary course because they were produced "in non-sequenced fashion"\'97in other words, not in chronological order. (Doc. 145, p. 6). But, as with the Category 1 documents, the order in which the native format emails were produced does not determine whether those emails were produced as kept in the ordinary course of business. If the native format emails can be sorted by date, the order of production is irrelevant. The emails themselves should contain the necessary information to permit sorting by date, and much of the information in the spreadsheet may therefore be redundant.[fn15] To the extent that the emails don't contain the necessary information, the second spreadsheet furnished the necessary information under Valeo. Therefore, Teledyne's motion to compel Defendants to furnish a production log is also DENIED for the Category 2 documents. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The Category 3 documents consist of converted files and non-ESI documents. ([*13] Doc. 120-8, p. 2). For the converted files, Defendants have made no showing that conversion preserved relevant application metadata or any important functionality such as searching and sorting. While they have suggested that Teledyne was permitted to inspect some of the non-ESI documents, Defendants have not claimed that inspection was permitted for all non-ESI documents. The three-page table at the end of the August 28 Production Log offers scant indication of how the Category 3 documents are kept in the ordinary course of business. Therefore, as to the Category 3 documents, Defendants have failed to meet their burden of showing that these documents were produced as kept in the ordinary course of business and Teledyne's motion is GRANTED. For all Category 3 documents Teledyne did not physically inspect, Defendants must provide a production log, identifying, for each document produced, the request or requests to which the document is responsive. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 III. Defendants' Motion to Exclude Untimely Expert Reports 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The Case Management and Scheduling Order ("CMSO") set June 3, 2013 as the deadline for Teledyne's expert disclosures and July 3, 2013 as the deadline for all Defendants' expert disclosures. (Doc. 37, p. 3). On April 13, 2013 the Court granted the parties' joint motion to extend these deadlines to June 27, 2013 for Teledyne and July 26, 2013 for all Defendants. (Docs. 61, 63). On June 27, Teledyne timely served three expert reports prepared by four different expert witnesses. (Doc. 106, p. 3). Then, on July 26, 2013, Teledyne served five additional expert reports prepared by six different expert witnesses. ( Id., p. 4). The new reports are designated as "Counter-Defendant" reports. ( Id.). Defendants are asking the Court to exclude as untimely the expert reports Teledyne served on July 26, 2013. (Doc. 106). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Teledyne argues that its July 26 disclosures were timely because Defendants have counterclaimed against it and therefore, it is also a Defendant for purposes of the expert disclosure deadlines in the CMSO. (Doc. 108, p. 9). Alternatively, Teledyne argues that it had substantial justification for filing late expert reports and the Defendants have not been prejudiced. ( Id., pp. 10-12). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The Court rejects Teledyne's reading of the CMSO. Throughout the CMSO, the court uses "Plaintiff" to refer to Teledyne and "Defendants" to refer to Dr. Cairns, Abyssal Systems, and the Stillwater Trust. (Doc. 37). Construing "Defendants" to mean "Cairns, Abyssal Systems, and Stillwater Trust" in one part of the order but "all parties against whom a claim is pending" in another part would "'contravene ... normal rules of ... construction.'" Douglas v. Yates, 535 F.3d 1316, 1320 (11th Cir. 2008) (quoting Jones v.Bock, 549 U.S. 199, 223 (2007)). The Order is unambiguous. June 26 was the deadline for disclosure of all of Teledyne's expert reports, regardless of whether they applied to its claims or the Defendants' counterclaims. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Teledyne's untimely expert reports may still be allowed if the failure to timely serve them was "substantially justified" or "harmless." Fed.R.Civ.P. 37(c)(1). The determination of whether a party's failure is substantially justified or harmless [*14] lies within the "broad discretion" of the Court. Abdulla v. Klosinski, 898 F.Supp.2d 1348, 1359 (S.D. Ga. 2012). In determining whether to allow an untimely expert report under Rule 37(c)(1), the Court considers: (1) the unfair prejudice or surprise of the opposing party; (2) that party's ability to cure the surprise; (3) the likelihood and extent of disruption to the trial; (4) the importance of the evidence; and (5) the offering party's explanation for its failure to timely disclose the evidence. Mobile Shelter Systems USA, Inc. v. Grate Pallet Solutions, LLC, 845 F.Supp.2d 1241, 1250-51 (M.D. Fla. 2012). Accord Southern States Rack &Fixture, Inc. v. Sherwin-Williams Co., 318 F.3d 592, 597 (4th Cir. 2003); Abdulla, 898 F.Supp.2d at 1359. 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Defendants contend that they were prejudiced because they did not have an opportunity to depose all of Plaintiffs' experts or discover any of the experts' untimely opinions. (Doc. 106, pp. 6-7). The Court disagrees. Teledyne's untimely expert reports were submitted more than a month before the discovery deadline, giving Defendants more than enough time to take depositions and designate rebuttal experts, if any were needed. Cf. OFSFitel, LLC v. Epstein, Becker & Green, P.C., 549 F.3d 1344, 1363-64 (11th Cir. 2008) (reversing as abuse of discretion district court's exclusion of expert report submitted on November 3, because the other party "had ample time to take [the expert's] deposition in November ... and designate its rebuttal expert"). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Teledyne's initial expert disclosures included its own employee, Kenneth Nagengast, a report by Gerald Tourgee and Stephen Fitzpatrick from OCI Group who wrote a technical report on intellectual property issues (the "OCI Report"), and Dr. Edward T. Wolpert, who submitted a report on damages. (Doc. 108, p. 5). Teledyne insists that it merely " resubmitted " these expert's reports in support of its defense to the counterclaim. ( Id.(emphasis in original)). It maintains that the resubmitted reports are in virtually identical form, with limited revisions, typo corrections, or other alterations, to the reports it originally produced.[fn16]
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The most extensive of these "limited" revisions are to the OCI Report. As Teledyne explains it, "two sentences were added on p. 21, eight paragraphs were added on pp. 57-58 that amplified the discussion of competitive impact on Teledyne, and the list of documents reviewed was modified accordingly." (Doc. 108, p. 6).[fn17]Defendants argue that the modifications are more substantial than Teledyne lets on, and that Teledyne has not offered any reason why its experts did not review the documents and opine on them in their initial reports. (Doc. 134, p. 2). Defendants are correct\'97Teledyne has offered no reason for submitting the OCI Report a month past the deadline. Nor has Teledyne offered any reason for re-submitting Dr. Wolpert's report\'97which is apparently identical (aside from the title) to the report Teledyne disclosed in June. (Doc. 108, p. 6). Because Teledyne has offered no reason why it filed these two reports a month after the deadline, the Court finds that Teledyne has not shown substantial justification for missing the deadline or that its untimely submission of these reports was harmless. Accordingly, Defendants' motion is GRANTED [*15] in part and the "Counter-Defendant" reports of the OCI group and Dr. Wolpert are EXCLUDED. For these experts, Teledyne should cite only the reports it disclosed on June 27. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The other two reports were prepared by Mr. Regard and attorney Charles I. Nash. Both reports are relatively short, and the subjects on which they opine are not obscure. Teledyne explains that it was unable to sooner produce Mr. Regard's report because the Defendants did not provide the Replacement DAT, which Mr. Regard's report is largely based on, until June 21, six days before Teledyne's deadline. (Doc. 108, p. 1). At the hearing, counsel for Teledyne added that, between the day Teledyne received the chart and Replacement DAT and the June 27 deadline, counsel was preoccupied with depositions. Defendants maintain that the native files were provided earlier in June, and Mr. Regard had more than enough time to complete his analysis.[fn18](Doc. 133, p. 4). Teledyne's reason is not, as Defendants suggest, a "manufactured" excuse. (Doc. 133, p. 3). Most of Mr. Regard's report addresses the system metadata in the Replacement DAT, and it is not reasonable to expect him to have considered this evidence and addressed it in an expert report in less than a week. And, counsel for Defendants all but conceded that it was not prejudiced by Mr. Regard's report when he suggested at the hearing that "it would have made no sense" for Defendants to depose Mr. Regard, because they agree with his observation that "the dates [from system and application metadata] are different." Given the potential importance of Mr. Regard's testimony to the case and the absence of any unavoidable prejudice, the Court finds that Teledyne had substantial justification for submitting Mr. Regard's report when it did. Therefore, the motion to strike Mr. Regard's expert report is DENIED. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Mr. Nash has offered his expert opinions about the Stillwater Trust. Teledyne attributes its delay in submitting his report to the fact that Defendants did not produce all of the requested Trust documents until June 19, eight days before the deadline, and that the documents Defendants did produce were heavily redacted and not particularly useful. (Doc. 108, p. 4). Defendants blame Teledyne for this predicament, as Teledyne did not submit the last of its discovery requests regarding the Trust until June 3. (Doc. 133, p. 4). The Court finds that Teledyne has offered good reason for missing the deadline for Mr. Nash's report and, given the absence of unavoidable prejudice, that Teledyne had substantial justification for submitting Mr. Nash's report when it did. Therefore, the motion to strike Mr. Nash's expert report is DENIED. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 IV. Defendants' Motion to Compel Entries on Teledyne's Privilege Log 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 On March 13, 2012, Teledyne directed inside and outside counsel to begin the investigation that led to the filing of this lawsuit. (Doc. 128, p. 1-2). Teledyne has compiled and served a 340 page privilege log which ends March 12, 2012. ( Id., p. 1). Its position is that it should not have to produce a privilege log for any communications made during the almost three month period between the commencement [*16] of its investigation and June 6, 2012, when it filed suit. It argues that requiring it to submit a privilege log for this time frame would be unduly burdensome and not likely lead to the discovery of relevant information. (Doc. 128, p. 3). Defendants disagree and are requesting an order compelling Teledyne to produce a privilege log of withheld documents created between March 13 and June 6, 2012. (Doc. 111, p. 1). At the hearing, counsel for Defendants alleged that Teledyne did not make an adequate investigation before filing suit. He also said he only wants a privilege log of withheld communications between Teledyne's business people and its counsel. He stated that he is not trying to pierce the attorney-client privilege at this time, but the number of documents "raise concerns." 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 A party that withholds information on the grounds of privilege must "describe the nature of the documents, communications, or tangible things not produced or disclosed\'97 and do so in a manner that, without revealing information itself privileged or protected, will enable other parties to assess the claim." Fed.R.Civ.P. 26(b)(5)(A)(ii). Counsel typically satisfy this requirement by creating and producing a privilege log, listing the documents withheld along with the pertinent information for each document. The parties can agree to deviate from this norm, cf. Fed.R.Civ. P. 29, including by agreeing to log only privileged communications and attorney work product generated before the litigation commences. U.S. v. CinergyCorp., No. 1:99-cv-1693-LJM-JMS, [2008 BL 286606], 2008 WL 5424007, at *4 (S.D. Ind. Dec. 30, 2008) (enforcing agreement between parties exempting post-filing communications from logging). The court may infer acquiescence to such an arrangement from a party's silence in the face of such omissions. Mattel,Inc. v. MGA Entertainment, Inc., No. CV 04-9049 DOC (RNBx), 2010 WL 3705782, at *1 (C.D. Cal. Aug. 3, 2010) ("The Court is satisfied that it has been the long-standing practice between the parties that post-filing documents need not be marked as privileged."). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Courts divide over whether parties must log post-filing communications absent an agreement. Some courts require parties to log post-complaint communications. See, e.g., Horton v. United States, 204 F.R.D. 670, 673 (D. Colo. 2002); Tyco Healthcare Group LP v. Mutual Pharmaceutical Co., Civil Action No. 07-1299 (SRO)(MAS), 2012 WL 1585335 (D.N.J. May 4, 2012); PostXCorp. v. Secure Data Motion, No. C 02-04483 SI, 2004 WL 2623234 (N.D. Cal. Jun. 9, 2004). These decisions often point to the plain language of Rule 26(b)(5), which makes no distinction between pre-filing and post-filing material. Horton, 204 F.R.D. at 673. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Other courts have declined to require the logging of privileged, post-filing documents. See Douglas C. Rennie, Why the Beginning Should bethe End: The Argument for Exempting Postcomplaint Materials From Rule26(b)(5)(A)'s Privilege Log Requirement, 85 Tul. L. Rev. 109, 133 n.155 (2010) (collecting cases). At least two federal district courts have adopted local rules exempting post-complaint communications from the scope of discovery. S.D. Fla. Local. R. 26.1(g)(3)(C); N.D. Okla. Local Civ. R. 26.4. One judge explained that the Southern District of Florida's rule reflects "[*17] a policy decision ... that[] despite the relevancy of a given document, in most cases, there is no good reason to require a party to go through the expense of a privilege log with respect to documents created after the commencement of a case." Stern v. O'Quinn, 253 F.R.D. 663, 689 (S.D. Fla. 2008). 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Very few decisions, however, allow parties to unilaterally dispense with pre-complaint logging, at least of certain communications. Teledyne cites iSmart Int'l Ltd. v. i-DocSecure, LLC, No. C 04-03114 RMW (RS), [2006 BL 106019], 2006 WL 2263910 (N.D. Cal. Aug. 8, 2006), where the district court permitted a plaintiff to omit from its privilege log pre-complaint materials generated "in direct connection with preparation for litigation" but required logging of communications "generated after the parties' dispute arose but before litigation became inevitable, or otherwise unconnected with preparation for litigation." Id. at *3 (emphasis in original). Teledyne asks this Court to go even further and not require it to log any documents generated between the date its investigation began and suit was filed. Teledyne's position is inconsistent with Rule 26 and the case law. Accordingly, Teledyne must submit a privilege log of withheld information up to June 6, 2012 when it filed suit. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 An itemized privilege log is not always necessary to assess whether a communication is protected. As the Advisory Committee Note to Rule 26explains, "[d]etails concerning time, persons, general subject matter, etc., may be appropriate if only a few items are withheld, but may be unduly burdensome when voluminous documents are claimed to be privileged or protected, particularly if the items can be described by categories." 146 F.R.D. 401, 639. Teldyne offers good reasons why it should not have to individually log all pre-litigation correspondence. (See Doc. 128, p. 2). And, Defendants' explanation for seeking the privilege log is not unpersuasive. (See Doc. 111, p. 2). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 In some circumstances, a party may substitute categorical privilege logging for document by document privilege logging. Categorical privilege logging entails "describing by category the documents withheld on privilege grounds." United States v. KPMG, LLP, 237 F.Supp.2d 35, 37(D.D.C. 2002); see also SEC v. Thrasher, No. 92 CIV. 6987 (JFK), 1996 WL 125661, at *1 (S.D.N.Y. Mar. 20, 1996). The Court has the discretion to allow a party to produce a categorical privilege log. KPMG, 237 F.Supp.2d at 37 (citing United States v. Gericare Med. Supply, Inc., No. CIV.A.99-0366-CB-L, 2000 WL 33156442, at *3-4 (S.D. Ala. Dec. 11, 2000)). "A categorical log may be used where '(a) a document-by-document listing would be unduly burdensome and (b) the additional information to be gleaned from a more detailed log would be of no material benefit to the discovering party in assessing whether the claim is well-grounded.'" In re Rivastigme PatentLitigation, 237 F.R.D. 69, 87 (S.D.N.Y. 2006) (quoting Thrasher, 1996 WL 125661, at *1). The sufficiency of a categorical privilege log turns on whether the categories of information are sufficiently articulated to permit the opposing party to assess the claims of privilege or work product protection. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The Court finds that a categorical privilege log of documents created between March 13 and June [*18] 6, 2012, which have been withheld on the basis of privilege or protection, is sufficient. The log shall organize the documents into categories which provide sufficient information to permit Defendants to assess the validity of the claim of privilege or protection Teledyne is asserting for each category. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 V. Defendants' Motion to Exclude Expert Rebuttal Reports 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Defendants served James L. Cairns' Corrected Expert Rebuttal Report ("Dr. Cairns's Report") on July 31 and Teledyne served its "Rebuttal Report to James L. Cairns' Corrected Expert Rebuttal Report" ("OCI Rebuttal Report") on August 26, 2012. (Doc. 112, p. 3; Doc. 126, p. 2). Defendants' are asking the Court to exclude the OCI Rebuttal Report on the ground that it is untimely. (Doc. 112, p. 3-4). Teledyne argues the report is timely because it was submitted within 30 days after Dr. Cairns's Report, as required by Rule 26(a)(2)(D)(ii). (Doc. 126, p. 1). Defendants in turn maintain that the OCI Rebuttal Report is not actually a "rebuttal" report. They claim that it is a "further opening report primarily addressing information that could have been disclosed within the time set for [Teledyne's) initial expert report." (Doc. 112, p. 4). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Rule 26(a)(2)(D)(ii) provides that "[a]bsent a stipulation or court order," a party must disclose rebuttal expert witness reports "within 30 days after the other party's disclosure," if the evidence offered in the report "is intended solely to contradict or rebut evidence on the same subject matter identified by another party under Rule 26(a)(2)(B) or (C)." For the disclosure of a rebuttal report to be timely under this provision, three things must be true: (1) no stipulation or court order must provide otherwise; (2) the report must be served within 30 days of the report to which it is responding; and (3) the report must be bona-fide rebuttal, that is, it must be "intended solely to contradict or rebut evidence on the same subject matter identified by" an opposing expert. Fed. R. Civ. P. 26(a)(2)(D)(ii) 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Defendants argue that the CMSO supersedes Rule 26(a)(2)(D), and because the CMSO does not make a distinction between initial and rebuttal reports, it applies to both. Teledyne contends that the court should not read the CMSO to abrogate a party's right to secure expert evidence in rebuttal. The Court agrees with Teledyne. The CMSO's failure to set a deadline for the disclosure of rebuttal expert witness reports does not mean that rebuttal expert witness reports are not permitted. It simply means that rebuttal expert witness reports must be submitted within the period set forth in Rule 26(a)(2)(D)(ii). See McMahon v. Presidential Airways, Inc., No. 6:05-cv-1002-Orl-28GJK, [2009 BL 150621], 2009 WL 2151316, at *1 (M.D. Fla. July 14, 2009) ("Because the Court has not ordered any deadlines for the disclosure of rebuttal witnesses, the general provision of Rule [26(a)(2)(D)(ii)] applies."). This is the prevailing rule in this circuit and throughout the country. See, e.g., A & J Mfg., LLC v. Kingsford Prods. Co., 2:09-049, 2010 WL 1956042, at *2 (S.D. Ga. May 13, 2010); SEC v. Badian, No. 06 Civ. 2621(LTS)(DFE), 2009 WL 5178537, at *4 (S.D.N.Y. Dec. 23, 3009); Mayou v.Ferguson, 544 F.Supp.2d 899, 901 (D.S.D. 2008); Smith v. Jacobs EngineeringGroup, Inc., No. 4:06-cv-496, 2008 WL 5351047, [*19] at *1 (N.D. Fla. Dec. 15, 2008); IBM v. Fasco. Indus., Inc., C-93-20326, 1995 WL 115421, at *2 (N.D. Cal. Mar. 15, 1995). Teledyne timely served the OCI Rebuttal Report within 30 days of Dr. Cairns's Report and therefore, it is admissible so long as it is a bona fide rebuttal report. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Defendants argue that the OCI Rebuttal Report is in reality, an original report that Teledyne concealed until two days before Defendants deposed one of the report's authors and less than a week before the close of discovery. (Doc. 112, p. 4). Defendants claim that the OCI Rebuttal Report is not bona-fide rebuttal because it "address[es] information that could have been disclosed" in the experts' original report and discusses matters that the expert had reviewed and considered during the preparation of the original report. ( Id.). The test under Rule 26(a)(2)(D)(ii) is not whether a rebuttal report contains new information, but whether it is "intended solely to contradict or rebut evidence on the same subject matter" of an opponent's expert report. See Lott v. ITW Food Equip. Gp., LLC, [2013 BL 186621], 2013 WL 3728581, at *21-22 (N.D. Ill. July 15, 2013); see also Crowley v. Chait, 322 F.Supp.2d 530, 551 (D.N.J. 2004) (expert may include material in rebuttal report even though material could have been included in initial report). The rules do not require parties or their expert witnesses to anticipate all foreseeable opposing arguments and meet those arguments in their initial reports. "Such a rule would lead to the inclusion of vast amounts of arguably irrelevant material in an expert's report on the off chance that failing to include any information in anticipation of a particular criticism would forever bar the expert from later introducing the relevant material." Crowley, 322 F.Supp.2d at 551. "All that is required is for the information to repel other expert testimony." Id.
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The OCI Rebuttal Report is a bona fide rebuttal report to Dr. Cairns's Report. It mentions "Dr. Cairns' Rebuttal" or "Dr. Cairns' Rebuttal Report" more than 30 times and it frequently quotes passages or reproduces tables or diagrams from Dr. Cairns's Report. The entire second half of the OCI Rebuttal Report takes the form of alternating quotations from Dr. Cairns's Report and critiques of those passages by Teledyne's experts. Accordingly, the motion to exclude the OCI Rebuttal Report is DENIED. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 VI. Conclusion 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Accordingly: 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 1. Teledyne's Amended Motion to Compel Production of Forensic Images and Devices and a Production Log (Doc. 120) is GRANTED IN PART and DENIED IN PART. Within 14 days from the rendition of this Order, Defendants shall produce a production log identifying, for each document, the request or requests to which the document is responsive, listing all Category 3 documents that Teledyne did not physically inspect. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 2. Teledyne's Motion to Compel Production of Forensic Images and Devices and a Production Log (Doc. 109) is DENIED as moot. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 3. Defendants' Motion to Exclude Teledyne's Untimely Expert Reports and Related Testimony is GRANTED IN PART and DENIED IN PART. The "Counterdefendant Expert Reports" of the OCI experts and Dr. Wolpert are EXCLUDED. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 4. Defendants' Motion to Compel Entry on Teledyne's Privilege [*20] Log of Certain Documents Predating the Filing of the Lawsuit (Doc. 111) is GRANTED. Teledyne shall produce a categorical privilege log for the period between March 12, 2013 and the date of filing of this lawsuit. The privilege log need not itemize every communication but may assert privilege for documents categorically, as long as the category descriptions allow Defendants and the Court to assess the claim of privilege. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 5. Defendants' Motion to Exclude Expert Rebuttal Reports (Doc. 112) is DENIED. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 DONE and ORDERED.
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn1] This motion supersedes Teledyne's Motion to Compel Production of Forensic Images and Devices and a Production Log (Doc. 109). The Court will DENY the original motion (Doc. 109) as moot. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn2] Technically speaking, a file's "native format" is the format in which it is originally created. The Sedona Conference Working Group on Electronic Document Production, The Sedona Principles: Best Practices Recommendations &Principles for Addressing Electronic Document production, p. 62 (2d ed. 2007) available at https://thesedonaconference.org/download-pub/81. For example, a document created in Microsoft Word will have a doc or docx native format. When a file is converted from its original format (e.g., doc) to another format (e.g., pdf), the converted format is not the "native format," even if that is the only format in which the user keeps the file. Id., p. 8 (explaining that "[t]he phrase 'ordinarily maintained' is not synonymous with 'native format'"). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 In this case, however, the parties appear to use "native format" to mean not the format in which a document is created, but the format in which the document is kept. Many of the files produced in "native format" are pdf and jpeg files (see, e.g., Doc. 120-2, p. 23). These formats are indicative of a file that has been converted from another format. Cf. City of Colton v.American Promotional Events, Inc., 277 F.R.D. 578 (C.D. Cal. 2011) (party produced documents converted to TIFF or JPEG format rather than native format); Cenevo Corp. v. Southern Graphic Systems, Civil No. 08-5521 (JRT/AJB), [2009 BL 293720], 2009 WL 4042898 (D. Minn. Nov. 18, 2009) (party produced documents in pdf format instead of native format). In this order, except where otherwise noted, the Court will use "native format" and "native files" in the sense that the parties are using these terms\'97in other words, to refer to files in the format in which they are kept. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn3] To do this, Mr. Regard used LAW Pre-Discovery, an "industry standard processing tool." (Doc. 120-5, \'b6 24). In his declaration submitted as an exhibit to Teledyne's reply, Mr. Regard explains that 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 LAW first attempts to extract application metadata stored within a file. If LAW does not identify application metadata, it extracts operating system metadata. The operating system metadata, however, is pulled from the system used by LAW to process the files and does not reflect the operating system metadata of the locations from which the native files were produced. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 (Doc. 145-1, p. 4 n. 2). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn4] This agreement is enforceable under Local Rule 4.15(a), which requires that any "stipulation or agreement" between parties or their counsel "in relation to any aspect of any pending case" must be "made before the Court and noted in the record" or "reduced to writing and subscribed by the party or attorney against whom it is asserted." 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn5] It is possible that the comparison Mr. Regard performed was not entirely between application metadata from the native files and system metadata as represented in the Replacement DAT. LAW, the software program Mr. Regard used to extract metadata from the native files extracted application metadata date stamps only from those files which contained application metadata date stamps corresponding to dates modified, accessed, and created. (Doc. 145-1, p. 4, n. 2). If LAW does not find application metadata in a particular file, it uses system metadata for the files "from the system used by LAW to process the files," which "does not reflect the operating system metadata of the locations from which the native files were produced. ( Id.). Mr. Regard's report does not identify how many of the extracted dates are from application metadata and how many are from system metadata. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn6] Teledyne's claim that it did not know what kind of metadata it was dealing with is not credible. Mr. Regard's report states that modified, accessed, and created dates "are external to the file and stored elsewhere by the operating system," and that "[f]or this reason, it is common to see them included in the DAT file even when the files produced are in native format." (Doc. 120-5, \'b6 15). Mr. Regard also noted that "[i]nconsistencies can emerge when operating system metadata is no longer in sync with application metadata. ( Id. \'b6 28). And as Defendants' counsel pointed out at the hearing, Mr. Regard should have realized he was dealing with system metadata because the Replacement DAT contained a field for file path (which is typically included in system metadata but not application metadata). If, despite the file path information, Teledyne was unsure, it could have asked Defendants whether the metadata provided in the Replacement DAT and the chart was system metadata. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn7] Although Teledyne is correct to note that it will obtain new information from the production it seeks, the devices and forensic images will also contain the native files and the system metadata fields included in the Replacement DAT, which Defendants have already produced. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn8] A forensic analysis of Defendants' devices could identify and perhaps even recover files that Defendants may have deleted, and some of these files may be different in content to the files Defendants have already produced. But this too, is speculative; Teledyne has provided no basis for suspicion that Dr. Cairns ever deleted from any of his storage devices files that are material to this case and which have not already been produced. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn9] The Court takes no position on whether production of a document in a converted format would suffice, provided that the converted format preserves all of the information, including metadata, and accommodates all of the functionality (e.g. searching, sorting, etc.) of the original format. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn10] As with production of paper documents, a party must also identify the custodian of electronic documents. Pass & Seymour, 255 F.R.D. at 334. Here, Defendants have disclosed that Dr. Cairns is the custodian of all of the Category 1 and 2 documents. (Doc. 120-8). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn11] Thus, a .pdf file or hard document displaying this information, such as the chart Defendants produced on June 21 Bates labeled CAA00014446\'97CAA00014532, would be insufficient by itself, because it would not permit "systemized retrieval" of relevant information. The Replacement DAT produced on June 21, however, contains all of this data in digital form. The Replacement DAT, together with the OPT files, placeholder TIFF images, and native files from the June 3 and June 12 productions, (see Doc. 120-5, \'b6\'b6 8-11), may have given Teledyne all of the information needed to substantially replicate the directory structure of Defendants' electronic devices and systematically retrieve files based on path and filename. But Defendants do not make this argument; and the Court would require more evidence regarding the capability and operation of e-discovery software in order to make such a finding. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn12] Desktop_HDD files are broken up into three blocks, rather than two: CAA00001488 to CAA00002166; CAA00012710 to CAA00012779; and CAA00013349 to CAA00014341. The files in each block are Bates numbered in alphabetical order by file path. The documents in the first block were produced on June 3; the documents for the second and third blocks were produced on June 12. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn13] At the hearing, counsel for Teledyne conceded that if the Bates numbers were provided sequentially, "that would be a different story." 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn14] Indeed, if that were the case, a requesting party could frustrate production "as kept in the usual course" simply by staggering production requests to ensure that documents from the same device had to be produced on different days. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn15] See Request for Comment 5322: Internet Message Format 19, The Internet Society: Internet Engineering Taskforce (P. Resnick, ed., Oct. 2008), available at http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5322 (origination date is a required header field); Request for Comment 2822: Internet Message Format17, The Internet Society: Internet Engineering Taskforce (P. Resnick, ed., Apr. 2001), available at http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2822 (same). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn16] The normal course of action for a litigant whose expert wishes to add to an already-disclosed report is to supplement the report under Rule 26(e)(2). However, Teledyne has not asked the Court to treat the revised reports as Rule 26(e) supplemental reports, and the Court declines to do so. Even if the Court did, it would not necessarily change the result, for "[Rule] 26(e) does not grant a license to supplement a previously filed expert report [merely] because a party wants to." Coles v. Perry, 217 F.R.D. 1, 3 (D.D.C. 2003). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn17] The added sentences on page 21 offer additional in reasons why the experts believe that Dr. Cairns's pending patent application "resulted from work that led to the Company's U.S. Patent 6,067,395." The new paragraphs on pages 57-59 explain how Dr. Cairns's licensing the patent application to a smaller company would harm Teledyne. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn18] At the hearing, counsel for Defendants insisted that this analysis should not have taken Mr. Regard more than a day, but didn't provide any support for this assertion. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb566\sa1133\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0          
\f0\fs42 General Information\

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 Judge(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Thomas B. Smith\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Related Docket(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 6:12-cv-00854 (M.D. Fla.);\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Topic(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Civil Procedure\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Date Filed\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 2013-10-25 00:00:00\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Parties\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 TELEDYNE INSTRUMENTS, INC., Teledyne, v. JAMES L. CAIRNS, ABYSSAL SYSTEMS, INC., KATHRYN F. KRAUSE and THE STILLWATER TRUST, Defendants.\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Case Type\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 SO\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Court\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 United States District Court for the Middle District of Florida\cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\li674\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\fs20 \cf0 Pagination \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 *
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 BL
\f1\fs24 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\li674\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 United States District Court, M.D. Florida \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, for the use and benefit of RAGGHIANTI FOUNDATIONS III, LLC, Plaintiff, v. PETER R. BROWN CONSTRUCTION, ET AL., Defendants. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Case No. 8:12-cv-942-T-33MAP. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 September 19, 2013. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
ORDER 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\
Virginia M. Hernandez Covington, District Judge 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\
Now before the Court are Plaintiff Ragghianti Foundations III, LLC's Objections (Doc. # 86) to the July 2, 2013, Order (Doc. # 83) of the Honorable Mark A. Pizzo, United States Magistrate Judge, in which Judge Pizzo granted in part Ragghianti's Fourth Motion to Compel Discovery and for Sanctions (Doc. # 76), but declined to award attorneys' fees and costs to Ragghianti. Ragghianti also objects to Judge Pizzo's decision to grant Defendant Peter R. Brown Construction, Inc.'s ("PRBC") Motion for Extension of Discovery Deadline. (Doc. # 78). Ragghianti filed its Objections on July 15, 2013 (Doc. # 86), and PRBC filed a response in opposition to the Objections on July 29, 2013. (Doc. # 87). Upon due consideration and for the reasons that follow, Ragghianti's Objections are overruled. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 I. Background 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 PBS&J Constructors, Inc., entered into a construction contract with the United States of America, contracting through the Army Corps of Engineers, on August 16, 2010. (Doc. ## 1 at \'b6\'b6 8, 10). "Sureties issued a Payment and Performance Bond (no. 6724282) on August 23, 2010 in accordance with [the Miller Act,] 40 USC \'a7 3131[,] naming PBS&J as principal." ( Id. at \'b6 11). On January 24, 2011, PRBC "entered into a subcontract with [Ragghianti] to provide the building foundation, slab on grade, miscellaneous concrete and site concrete to the project. . . ." ( Id. at \'b6 9; Doc. # 1-1). Ragghianti alleges that although it has demanded payment from PRBC for labor, material, and services provided pursuant to the entities' subcontract, PRBC "has failed and refused to make payment in breach of the Subcontract." (Doc. # 1 at \'b6 19). Ragghianti initiated this Miller Act breach of contract suit against PRBC and against Liberty Mutual Insurance Company and Safeco Insurance Company of America as co-sureties on the Miller Act bonds, on April 27, 2012. (Doc. # 1). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 On October 22, 2012, Ragghianti filed a Motion to Compel Discovery, seeking better or amended answers to interrogatories from PRBC. (Doc. # 40). On November 19, 2012, Ragghianti filed its Second Motion to Compel Discovery, this time seeking production of records from PRBC and moving the Court to award attorneys' fees and expenses. (Doc. # 43). Judge Pizzo denied both Motions, noting that should PRBC ultimately produce incomplete documents, Ragghianti could file another motion to compel discovery. (Doc. # 47 at 7). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Ragghianti filed its Third Motion to Compel Discovery on April 1, 2013, seeking complete production of PRBC's hardcopy records, electronic discovery, interrogatory answers, and privilege log. (Doc. # 48). Ragghianti also moved the Court for an extension of the discovery deadline and for an award of expenses. ( Id.). After conducting a hearing on the Third Motion to Compel, Judge Pizzo denied the Motion without prejudice, ordered the parties to meet with e-discovery vendors, directed [*2] PRBC to file a privilege log by June 7, 2013, and scheduled a Rule 16 conference for June 14, 2013. (Doc. # 70). Ragghianti filed no objections to Judge Pizzo's rulings on the first three Motions to Compel Discovery. 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Ragghianti filed its Fourth Motion to Compel Discovery (Doc. # 76) on June 12, 2013. In the Fourth Motion to Compel, Ragghianti asserted that PRBC failed to comply with the Court's Orders, rules, and its own assurances regarding answers to interrogatories 9 and 15, and failed to complete hardcopy and electronic production. (Doc. # 76). The Motion also sought sanctions including attorneys' fees and costs, pursuant to Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 37. ( Id.). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 On July, 2, 2013 \'97 after conducting the Rule 16 conference on June 14, 2013, and after receiving PRBC's response in opposition to the Fourth Motion to Compel Discovery \'97 Judge Pizzo granted the Fourth Motion to Compel Discovery "to the extent that the Defendant is directed to produce all e-discovery, including all outstanding email discovery, on or before July 22, 2013," and denied the Motion in all other respects. (Doc. # 83 at 1). In so ruling, Judge Pizzo denied Ragghianti's request for an award of attorneys' fees and costs. ( Id. at 5). In the same Order, Judge Pizzo also granted the Motion for Extension of Discovery Deadlines (Doc. # 78) filed by PRBC on June 18, 2013, stating that the Motion was granted "to the extent that the Defendant shall produce all e-discovery, including all outstanding email discovery, to Plaintiff on or before July 22, 2013, all depositions [shall] be conducted by August 19, 2013, and the dispositive motion deadline is extended to August 31, 2013."[fn1] (Doc. # 83 at 1). Ragghianti filed Objections to Judge Pizzo's ruling on July 15, 2013 (Doc. # 86), and PRBC filed a response in opposition to the Objections on July 29, 2013. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 II. Legal Standard 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 A district court shall consider objections to a magistrate judge's order on nondispositive matters and modify or set aside any portion of the order if it is found to be "clearly erroneous" or "contrary to law." Fed. R. Civ. P. 72(a). "Clear error is a highly deferential standard of review." Holtonv. City of Thomasville Sch. Dist., 425 F.3d 1325, 1350 (11th Cir. 2005). A finding of fact is clearly erroneous only if the reviewing court is left with a definite and firm conviction that a mistake has been made. See Fordv. Haley, 195 F.3d 603, 617 (11th Cir. 1999). A finding is contrary to law if it fails to apply or misapplies relevant statutes, case law, or rules of procedure. 800 Adept, Inc. v. Murex Sec, Ltd., No. 6:02 cv-1354-ORL-19DAB, [2007 BL 109303], 2007 WL 2826247, at *1 (M.D. Fla. Sept. 25, 2007). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 III. Analysis 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Ragghianti claims that the Magistrate Judge erred both by denying Ragghianti's request for the award of attorneys' fees and costs included in the Fourth Motion to Compel Discovery and by granting PRBC's Motion for Extension of Discovery Deadlines. (Doc. # 86 at 1). Specifically, Ragghianti argues that the Magistrate Judge erred by "[d]etermining PRB[C]'s piecemeal discovery production was justified" and by "[o]verlooking the legal standard in granting PRB[C]'s motion for extension of the discovery deadline." ( Id.). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 A. Denial of Discovery Sanctions 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 In his Order on the Fourth Motion [*3] to Compel Discovery, Judge Pizzo found that "[g]iven the fact that the Defendant's piecemeal discovery production seems justified in light of the complications it describes and the ongoing nature of the projects at issue," it was not appropriate to award sanctions in the form of Ragghianti's expenses and fees. (Doc. # 83 at 5) (emphasis added). Ragghianti and Judge Pizzo cite to two different subsections of Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 37 when considering the award of sanctions \'97 Ragghianti cites to Rule 37(a), governing motions for orders compelling disclosure or discovery, while Judge Pizzo cites to Rule 37(b), which addresses failure to comply with a court order \'97 but each subsection carves out a specific exemption for behavior which is "substantially justified." Rule 37(a)(5)(A) states: 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 (A) If the motion is granted \'97 or if the disclosure or requested discovery is provided after the motion was filed \'97 the court must, after giving an opportunity to be heard, require the party or deponent whose conduct necessitated the motion . . . to pay the movant's reasonable expenses incurred in making the motion, including attorney's fees. But the court must not order this payment if: (i) the movant filed the motion before attempting in good faith to obtain the disclosure or discovery without court action; (ii) the opposing party's nondisclosure, response, or objection was substantially justified; or (iii) other circumstances make an award of expenses unjust. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Rule 37(b)(2)(C) states: "(C) Instead of or in addition to the orders above, the court must order the disobedient party . . . to pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney's fees, caused by the failure, unless the failure was substantially justified or other circumstances make an award of expenses unjust." Judge Pizzo's conclusion that "Defendant's piecemeal discovery production seems justified" (Doc. # 83 at 5) serves as a finding that PRBC's piecemeal discovery production is substantially justified in light of the circumstances of this case. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 "Substantially justified means that reasonable people could differ as to the appropriateness of the contested action." Maddow v. Procter & GambleCo., Inc., 107 F.3d 846, 853 (11th Cir. 1997) (citing Pierce v. Underwood, 487 U.S. 552, 565 (1988)). District courts have "considerable discretion in managing discovery and determining that reasonable people could differ in the appropriateness of . . . discovery requests." Neumont v. Fla., 610 F.3d 1249, 1253 (11th Cir. 2010) (affirming the district court's decision to grant four motions to compel but to decline awarding sanctions). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 To the extent that Ragghianti's Objections restate arguments made in the first three Motions to Compel Discovery in an effort to show that PRBC's piecemeal discovery production is not substantially justified, the Court is not persuaded by Ragghianti's arguments. Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 72(a) provides: 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 When a pretrial matter not dispositive of a party's claim or defense is referred to a magistrate judge to hear and decide, the magistrate judge must promptly conduct the required proceedings and, when appropriate, issue a written order stating the decision. [*4] A party may serve and file objections to the order within 14 days after being served with a copy. A party may not assign as error a defect in the order not timely objected to. The district judge in the case must consider timely objections and modify or set aside any part of the order that is clearly erroneous or is contrary to law. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Ragghianti failed to object to Judge Pizzo's denials of the first three Motions to Compel Discovery. Accordingly, while the Court is obliged to review the July 2, 2013, Order for clear error and findings contrary to law, Ragghianti has waived its right to revisit the denials of the first three Motions to Compel. See Ivey v. Paulson, 222 F. App'x 815, 817 (11th Cir. 2007) (noting that failure to timely object to a magistrate judge's ruling "constitutes a waiver of the right to appeal the order"). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 After thoroughly reviewing the record, the Court concludes that reasonable minds could differ as to the appropriateness of PRBC's piecemeal discovery production. As such, the Court is not left with a definite and firm conviction that the Magistrate Judge has made a mistake. See Ford, 195 F.3d at 617. Although Ragghianti argues that technical complications cannot substantially justify PRBC's piecemeal discovery production because "those alleged complications have been present for months," (Doc. # 86 at 9), PRBC does not deny that its "email production has taken much longer than anticipated" (Doc. # 80 at 9). Instead, PRBC claims that its discovery process is a "challenging task from a technical perspective" and that it has "expended significant time and expense to uncover all potentially relevant emails" and has also agreed to "revisit e-discovery and . . . run additional email searches" at Ragghianti's request. ( Id. at 5, 9-10). Regarding its paper discovery, PRBC points to both the ongoing nature of the construction project ( Id. at 7, 10) as well as complications arising from the involvement of third parties ( Id. at 6-8) to explain the piecemeal nature of its production. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The Court echoes Judge Pizzo's sentiment and "respect[s Ragghianti's] request for [PRBC]'s discovery responses prior to the depositions, to the extent that is possible." (Doc. # 83 at 5). However, the Court discerns neither clear error nor findings contrary to law in Judge Pizzo's determination that PRBC's "piecemeal discovery production seems justified in light of the complications it describes and the ongoing nature of the project at issue. . . ." ( Id.). The Court also notes that Judge Pizzo explicitly held that an award of sanctions "at this time" would "be premature," and advised PRBC that it was "on notice that failure to provide responses to discovery and comply with this Court's orders may result in sanctions." ( Id.) (emphasis added). In overruling Ragghianti's Objections to the July 2, 2013, Order, the Court takes no position regarding the appropriateness of awarding sanctions at a later date. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 B. Good Cause to Extend Discovery Deadlines 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 16(b)(4) states that "A [case management] schedule may be modified only for good cause and with the judge's consent." "This good cause standard precludes modification unless [*5] the schedule cannot be met despite the diligence of the party seeking the extension.'" Sosa v.Airprint Sys., Inc., 133 F.3d 1417, 1418 (11th Cir. 1998) (quoting Fed. R. Civ. P. 16 advisory committee's note); see also Weaver v. Mateer & Harbert,P.A., No. 5:09-cv-514-OC-34TBS, [2012 BL 190308], 2012 WL 3065362, at *8 n.20 (M.D. Fla. July 27, 2012) (same). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Judge Pizzo found that PRBC's "requests for additional time [were] reasonable in light of the facts set forth in its papers." (Doc. # 83 at 5). While Judge Pizzo did not specifically state that "good cause" existed to extend the deadline, he did outline the various reasons PRBC provided for an extension of the discovery deadline, including "illness of defense counsel's relative precluding travel to Orlando and requiring cancellation and re-scheduling of two depositions, difficulty scheduling depositions due to several witnesses' limited availability, and Plaintiff's belated production of emails and third party documents." ( Id. at 4). After acknowledging that Ragghianti argues PRBC has not been diligent but instead caused the "need for additional time" by "its noncompliance with Court orders, rules and its own promised deadlines" ( Id.), Judge Pizzo nevertheless found that PRBC's request for an extension of time was "reasonable" ( Id. at 5). The Court finds that PRBC's request was, indeed, reasonable, and that good cause existed to modify the Case Management and Scheduling Order. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 "[A] magistrate judge is afforded broad discretion in issuing nondispositive pretrial orders related to discovery. Palma v. Fla.Neurological Ctr., LLC, No. 5:10-cv-117-OC-34TBS, [2011 BL 315870], 2011 WL 6153423, at *2 (M.D. Fla. Dec. 12, 2011). "Under Rule 72(a), the objecting party is obliged to demonstrate that the magistrate judge was clearly wrong. . . ." Dominguezv. Metro. Miami-Dade Cnty., 359 F.Supp.2d 1323, 1345 (S.D. Fla. 2004) aff'd, 167 F. App'x 147 (11th Cir. 2006). Ragghianti has not carried that burden. After a careful and complete review of Judge Pizzo's resolution of the Fourth Motion to Compel, the Objections, and the response to the Objections, the Court finds that the Magistrate Judge's decisions not to award sanctions and to grant PRBC's Motion for Extension of Discovery Deadline were neither clearly erroneous nor contrary to law. Accordingly, Ragghianti's Objections are due to be overruled. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Accordingly, it is 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 ORDERED, ADJUDGED, and DECREED: 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 (1) Plaintiff Ragghianti Foundations III, LLC's Objections (Doc. # 86) to the Magistrate Judge's July 2, 2013, Order are OVERRULED. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 (2) Judge Pizzo's Order (Doc. # 83) is AFFIRMED. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 DONE and ORDERED.
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn1] On August 26, 2013, the Court extended the dispositive motion deadline to September 23, 2013, and extended the deadline for motions in limine to October 13, 2013. (Doc. # 89). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb566\sa1133\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0          
\f0\fs42 General Information\

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 Judge(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 VIRGINIA MARIA HERNANDEZ COVINGTON\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Related Docket(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 8:12-cv-00942 (M.D. Fla.);\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Topic(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Civil Procedure\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Date Filed\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 2013-09-19 00:00:00\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Parties\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, for the use and benefit of RAGGHIANTI FOUNDATIONS III, LLC, Plaintiff, v. PETER R. BROWN CONSTRUCTION, ET AL., Defendants.\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Case Type\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 SO\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Court\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 United States District Court for the Middle District of Florida\cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\li674\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\fs20 \cf0 Pagination \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 *
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 F.R.D. 
\f1\fs24 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\li674\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Majority Opinion > 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 United States District Court for the Southern District of Florida\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0  \uc0\u8232 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Wynmoor Community Council, Inc., et al., Plaintiffs,
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 v.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 QBE Insurance Corporation, Defendant.
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0  \uc0\u8232 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 No. 10-62411-CIV.\
March 5, 2012.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 [*682] Christopher N. Mammel, Coleman J. Braun, Childress Duffy Goldblatt, Ltd., Chicago, IL, Erwin Alexander Acle, Childress Duffy, Ltd., Miami, FL, Mark D. Bogen, Bogen Law Group, P.A., Boca Raton, FL, for Plaintiffs.
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Damian Dwight Daley, William Frederick Fink, Wicker Smith O'Hara McCoy & Ford PA, Miami, FL, Jordan Scott Cohen, Wicker Smith Tutan O'Hara McCoy Graham & Ford, Fort Lauderdale, FL, William S. Berk, Evelyn Maureen Merchant, John Robert Anderson, Berk Merchant & Sims PLC, William Xanttopoulos, William Xanttopoulos, Esq., Coral Gables, FL, Christopher N. Mammel, Childress Duffy Goldblatt, Ltd., Chicago, IL, Ronaflor E. Smith, C. Deborah Bain PA, Catherine Deborah Bain, North Palm Beach, FL, for Defendant.
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb108\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 ORDER \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 LURANA S. SNOW, United States Magistrate Judge.\
THIS CAUSE is before the Court on Defendant QBE Insurance Corporation's (QBE) Motion to Compel Production and Forensic Examination (DE 59), which was referred to United States Magistrate Judge Lurana S. Snow.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb108\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 I. BACKGROUND AND PROCEDURAL HISTORY\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Plaintiffs Wynmoor Community Council, Inc., et al. filed a Complaint alleging breach of an insurance contract against Defendant in Broward County, Florida on October 22, 2010. (DE 1-4) On December 10, 2010, the matter was removed to this Court. (DE 1) Plaintiffs' Corrected Fourth Amended Complaint claims that they are entitled to payment for losses sustained as a result of damage caused by Hurricane Wilma on October 24, 2005. (DE 67)\
Defendant's motion arises from its Second Request for Production which it served on October 14, 2011. (DE 59, p. 2) A number of the requests seek the production of documents and/or data from electronic media (including hard drives, floppy drives, etc. of computers).1 Defendant asserts that Plaintiffs [*683] failed to respond to its request other than to seek more time on October 28, 2011,2 and that owing to Plaintiffs' failure to respond to the Second Request for Production, any objections should be waived.\
Defendant's motion also seeks a forensic examination of Plaintiffs' computer systems. As grounds Defendant cites Plaintiffs failure to produce a single piece of electronically stored information (ESI), and their "continued, and recently amplified, hard-copy document shredding campaign." (DE 59, p. 5) Additionally, Defendant contends that a planned "change out" of the Plaintiffs' computer system risks loss of data.  Id. at p. 6. Defendant suggests the Court adopt a collection and review protocol similar to that utilized by the Court in Bank of Mongolia v. M & P Global Financial Services, Inc., 258 F.R.D. 514 (S.D.Fla.2009). The costs of the forensic data collection would initially be borne by the Defendant;3 the Court to appoint an expert to collect the data.4 \
Plaintiffs' response to the motion asserts that Defendant's representatives have had unfettered access to all of its documents and data since November 2005 and continuing to the present. Plaintiffs contend that their response to Defendant's first Request for Production objected to the production of ESI as unreasonably duplicative of the hard copy documents they were willing to provide. The only difference between the first and second request for production is the inclusion of the phrase "from January 1992 through the present" added to identical requests for documents in the first request. In any case, Defendant was allowed unrestricted access to "every scrap of records" maintained by Plaintiffs starting on October 27, 2011. (DE 68, p. 3) Plaintiffs attached a response to Defendant's Second Request for Production which continues to object to the production of electronic discovery as unreasonably duplicative as well as unduly burdensome. (DE 68-3) They contest the probative value of the ESI Defendant seeks, and further assert that the cost and burden they would suffer "far outweighs any speculative benefit from any discoverable information that might exist only in electronic form\'97especially since Defendant offers no evidence that any discoverable ESI exists." (DE 68, p. 2) Finally, Plaintiffs point to the fact that they do not maintain the e-mail correspondence for their employees on their servers5, and that they suffered a massive loss of information as a result of Hurricane Wilma.\
Defendant denies that it was provided unfettered access to Plaintiffs' documents in 2005-2006. (DE 75) In fact, Defendant claims that the only documentation it received from Plaintiffs during the claim investigation was the public adjuster's damage estimate. Id. All of its requests for documentation at that time were denied. Id. It also denies that it is seeking the same documentation now that it was seeking in connection with the claim investigation in 2006.\
[*684] Defendant points to the affidavit and deposition testimony of John D. Holthausen, Plaintiffs' Chief Information Officer, in support of its contention that the ESI sought is not duplicative. Mr. Holthausen testified that not all files on the server exist in paper format. (DE 75-2, p. 76) Only data required to be preserved for seven years by law would be preserved as a paper copy. Id. Mr. Holthausen testified that he does not print out his own e-mails and there is no policy in place requiring Plaintiffs' other employees to retain their e-mails.  Id. at p. 121.\
Defendant also learned that Mr. Holthausen has no experience in computer forensics, (DE 75-2, p. 121) and has not made any effort to retrieve ESI from Plaintiffs' computers. Id. at pp. 52, 71, 78, 95, 111, 116. In fact, Plaintiffs lack the software to run a keyword search and would need to purchase a third party-product to search the server.  Id. at 118. Mr. Holthausen claims that the hard drive containing the maintenance department work orders crashed sometime during Hurricane Wilma, although none of the other hard drives suffered the same fate. Id. at pp. 102-103. His attempt to recover the data was unsuccessful, and he physically destroyed the drive.  Id. at 103-107. He concedes that recovering the data wasn't a high priority at the time. Id. He was not informed about this lawsuit until a couple of months ago, until recently was unaware of any need to preserve documents, and has not changed any of his preservation procedures since learning of the lawsuit.  Id. at p. 127. Backups consist of daily overwrites of what was backed up the day before.  Id. at p. 79.\
Defendant asserts that although it requested the on-site document inspection at Wynmoor on October 12, 2011, Plaintiffs did not grant access until October 27, 2011. Only minimal work orders from prior to 2004 have been produced, and these pre-Hurricane Wilma work orders were found in the records of the finance and not the maintenance department.6 Defendant has also learned through a subpoena to Shred-It, a document shredding service, that Plaintiffs shredded documents regularly from five consoles on a monthly basis at a cost ranging from between $64.00 and $108.00. (DE 58-1) However, in October of 2011, Plaintiffs' shredding cost exceeded $1,000.00 for shredding which occurred on October 12 and again on October 21, 2011.7 Id. Defendant points to deposition testimony of Keith Arnold, Plaintiffs' CFO and Records Custodian to illustrate that numerous boxes of documents may have been shredded without his authorization. (DE 64-4, pp. 58-73 and 83-87) In particular, Mr. Arnold testified that he did not authorize the shredding that took place on October 12. (DE 64-4, p. 83) He also testified that he would never authorize the shredding of documents such as maintenance department work orders as these types of documents are kept indefinitely. Id. at pp. 67-69.\
The Defendant contends that the testimony of Mr. Holthausen, coupled with the unusual volume of document shredding that apparently took place just prior to its on site inspection provide ample grounds for granting its request for a forensic examination of Plaintiffs' computers. Defendant proposes that Robert Moody, an independent forensic examiner, or some other appropriately credentialed independent examiner, be retained for this purpose.\
During the time that this motion was being briefed, this Court entered an order directing Plaintiffs to preserve documents that relate to or concern the insured properties in this case. (DE 66) This order encompassed hard copy and ESI. Id. The Court instructed the Plaintiffs to not alter, permanently delete or make irretrievable any existing ESI, data or metadata on their computer systems, including ESI which may exist on computer systems in use prior to the electronic surge in 2005. Id. It rejected Defendant's proposal for the immediate production of a mirror image of the Plaintiffs' computer at that time, but noted that the necessity for a forensic examination would be addressed in the context of the instant motion to compel. Id. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb108\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 [*685] II. ANALYSIS\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 The Federal Rules of Civil Procedure set forth the scope and limits of discovery. Under Rule 26(b) , \
\pard\pardeftab720\li539\ri539\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 "Parties may obtain discovery regarding any nonprivileged matter that is relevant to any party's claim or defense ... [that] is relevant to the subject matter involved in the action. Relevant information need not be admissible at the trial if the discovery appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence ..., [however] the court must limit the frequency or extent of discovery otherwise allowed by these rules ... if it determines that: (i) the discovery sought is unreasonably cumulative or duplicative, or can be obtained from some other source that is more convenient, less burdensome, or less expensive; (ii) the party seeking discovery has had ample opportunity to obtain the information by discovery in the action; or (iii) the burden or expense of the proposed discovery outweighs its likely benefit, considering the needs of the case, the amount in controversy, the parties resources, the importance of the issues at stake in the action, and the importance of the discovery in resolving the issues...."\
Fed.R.Civ.P. 26(b) . The Advisory Committee notes to Rule 26 are instructive. They make clear that a broad search for facts, and indeed "fishing" for evidence is permitted. Adv. Com. Notes, 1946 Amendment, Rule 26, Fed.R.Civ.P . "Of course, matters entirely without bearing either as direct evidence or as leads to evidence are not within the scope of inquiry, but to the extent that the examination develops useful information, it functions successfully as an instrument of discovery, even if it produces no testimony directly admissible." Id. (Citations omitted.)\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 It is settled that, electronically stored information is discoverable under Rule 34(a) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure . "During discovery, the producing party has an obligation to search available systems for the information demanded." McPeek v. Ashcroft, 202 F.R.D. 31, 32 (D.D.C.2001). Deleted computer files, whether e-mails or otherwise, are likewise discoverable. Bank of Mongolia v. M & P Global Financial Services, Inc., 258 F.R.D. 514, 519 (S.D.Fla.2009).\
Rule 34 of the Federal rules of Civil Procedure provides that "[t]he party to whom [a] ... request [to produce] is directed must respond in writing within 30 days after being served ...," unless the parties stipulate to a shorter or longer time under Rule 29 or the court orders otherwise. Fed.R.Civ.P. 34(b)(2)(A) . "[T]he Advisory Committee notes to the 1970 Amendment [to Rule 34 ] state that this subdivision 'is essentially the same as that in Rule 33 ....' Thus as a general rule, when a party fails to timely object to ... production requests ... the objections are deemed waived." Pitts v. Francis, [2008 BL 305327], 2008 WL 2229524 , *2 (N.D.Fla., May 28, 2008) (citations omitted). However, the Court can excuse an untimely response for good cause. Bank of Mongolia v. M & P Global Financial Services, Inc., 258 F.R.D. 514, 518 (S.D.Fla.2009).\
If a party fails to answer a request for production, the party seeking the discovery may move for an order compelling a response under Fed.R.Civ.P. 37(a)(2) . Motions to compel are committed to the sound discretion of the court. Commercial Union Ins. Co. v. Westrope, 730 F.2d 729, 731 (11th Cir.1984). On a motion to compel the production of electronically stored information, a responding party need not provide "information from sources that the responding party identifies as not reasonably accessible because of undue burden or cost." U & I Corporation v. Advanced Medical Design, Inc., 251 F.R.D. 667, 674 (M.D.Fla.2008). The responding party has the burden to make this showing, however, even "if the responding party succeeds, the court may nevertheless order the discovery if the requesting party shows good cause." Id. The court must consider "whether the burden or expense of the proposed discovery outweighs the likely benefit, taking into account the needs of the case, the amount in controversy, the parties' resources, the importance of the issues at stake ... and the importance of the proposed discovery in resolving the issues." Id. \
[*686] Plaintiffs served their response to the Second Request for Production with their response to the motion to compel nearly three months after they were served.8 According to e-mail correspondence dated October 28, 2011, Plaintiffs claimed to be "diligently working on the electronic material" and requested more time. (DE 59-2) Subsequently, Defendant's learned from Plaintiffs' Chief Information Officer, John Holthausen, that at least as of February 1, 2012, he had made no effort to retrieve any ESI from Plaintiffs' computers. (DE 75-2, pp. 52, 71, 78, 95,111, 116) Plaintiffs' response to the Second Request for Production objects to every request for electronic discovery as unreasonably duplicative as well as expensive and burdensome "taking into account the needs of the case, the amount in controversy, the Plaintiff's resources, as non-profit condominium associations and the lack of value of the electronic discovery in resolving the issues." (DE 68-3) Plaintiffs also assert that the Second Request for Production is essentially identical to the First Request for Production with the addition of larger time frames in the requests. Plaintiffs claim to have served objections to the First Request in June of 2011. (DE 68, p. 4) The Court notes that the First Request was apparently served on the Plaintiffs on April 15, 2011, (DE 59-3) meaning that Plaintiffs' response was outside of the 30 days required by Rule 34 .\
The Court finds that the Plaintiffs' response to Defendant's Second Request for Production was untimely. Other than requesting more time to work on the ESI on October 28, 2011, Plaintiffs apparently did nothing until faced with a motion to compel. Indeed, it appears that Plaintiffs undertook no efforts to produce ESI responsive to Defendant's discovery request. Plaintiffs have not demonstrated good cause for their late response. Their objections are therefore deemed waived.\
Moreover, even if Plaintiffs' objections were timely, their objection that the ESI would be duplicative and unduly burdensome in light of the needs of the case is unsupported by the evidence presented. The Plaintiffs are seeking damages arising to their properties from the Defendant's alleged breach of an insurance contract. They are forty-six condominium associations whose combined losses could be substantial. Mr. Holthausen testified that not all of Plaintiffs' ESI would necessarily be found in hard copy format. Additionally, Plaintiffs have no policy in place for generating hard copies of e-mails between employees, or any e-mail policy whatsoever. Further, in light of the evidence of an unusually large spate of document shredding, some of which may have been unauthorized by Plaintiffs' CFO, there is at least the possibility that hard copy evidence germane to this litigation may have been destroyed that would not otherwise be available to the Defendant absent access to ESI stored in Plaintiffs' computer systems. For example, ESI relating to work orders pre-dating Hurricane Wilma could prove relevant to the condition of Plaintiffs' properties prior to the storm. Despite Keith Arnold's testimony that he would never authorize the destruction of maintenance work orders, Defendant alleges that very few pre-Hurricane Wilma work orders have been produced in hard copy. Therefore, responsive ESI stored on Plaintiffs' computers would not necessarily be duplicative of the hard copy discovery the Plaintiffs have already provided in this case. Finally, Plaintiffs have evidently made no efforts to identify ESI, deleted or otherwise, responsive to Defendant's request for production Although, according to the Plaintiffs' CIO, they presently lack the capability to undertake a search of their computer system for responsive ESI, this does not relieve them of their discovery obligation.\
Defendant requests the court order forensic imaging in this case. It contends that Plaintiffs have produced no ESI whatsoever, and a forensic examination may uncover electronic copies of recently purged hard copy documents. A forensic image, otherwise known as a "mirror image" will "replicate bit for bit sector for sector, all allocated and unallocated space, including slack space, [*687] on a computer hard drive." Bennett v. Martin, 186 Ohio App.3d 412, 425 , 928 N.E.2d 763 (10th District, 2009), citing, Balboa Threadworks, Inc. v. Stucky, [2006 BL 41510], 2006 WL 763668 , *3 (D.Kan., Mar. 24, 2006), quoting, Communications Ctr., Inc. v. Hewitt, [2005 BL 14012], 2005 WL 3277983 , *1 (E.D.Cal., Apr. 5, 2005). A mirror image "contains all the information in the computer, including embedded, residual, and deleted data." Id. citing, Ferron v. Search Cactus, L.L.C., [2008 BL 90480], 2008 WL 1902499 , *3, fn. 5 (S.D.Ohio, April 28, 2008). A Court must be mindful of the potential intrusiveness of ordering forensic imaging, however. Id. Before compelling such imaging the court must weigh inherent privacy concerns against its utility. Id. , citing, John B. v. Goetz, 531 F.3d 448, 460 (6th Cir.2008). The Court should consider "whether the responding party has withheld requested information, whether the responding party is unable or unwilling to search for the requested information, and the extent to which the responding party has complied with discovery requests." Id. citing, Henderson v. U.S. Bank, N.A., [2009 BL 92500], 2009 WL 1152019 , *2 (E.D.Wis., Apr. 29, 2009); Bianco v. GMAC Mtg. Corp., [2008 BL 239195], 2008 WL 4661241 , *2 (E.D.Pa., Oct. 22, 2008); Williams v. Massachusetts Mut. Life Ins. Co., 226 F.R.D. 144, 146 (D.Mass.2005). "When a requesting party demonstrates ... the responding party's failure to produce requested information, the scales tip in favor of compelling forensic imaging." Id. at 426 , 928 N.E.2d 763 citing, White v. Graceland College Center for Professional Development & Lifelong Learning, Inc., [2009 BL 54941], 2009 WL 722056 , *7 (D.Kan., Mar. 18, 2009); Diepenhorst v. Battle Creek, [2006 BL 74026], 2006 WL 1851243 , *3 (W.D.Mich., June 30, 2006); In re Weekley Homes, L.P., 295 S.W.3d 309 (Tex.2009).\
Jack Kubasek, Plaintiffs' Assistant Administrator testified in deposition that the Plaintiffs' work order system has always been maintained on the computer system. (DE 59-4, pp. 57-60) Hard copies are also maintained in the maintenance department, and then in storage. Id. at pp. 66-67. Plaintiffs assert that the drive containing all of their pre-Hurricane Wilma maintenance work orders in electronic format crashed during the hurricane and therefore, there are no work orders in electronic format predating the storm in its computer system. According to John Holthausen's affidavit, this data is unrecoverable. However, he concedes that the recovery of this data wasn't a high priority to him in the months immediately following the storm, nor is he an expert in computer forensics. Plaintiffs also claim that only a few of its employees maintain work related e-mail accounts, and it has no policy regarding saving these e-mails on its servers.\
It would appear that Plaintiffs are either unwilling or unable to conduct a search of their computer systems for documents responsive to Defendant's discovery requests. In light of the foregoing, the Court believes that a forensic examination of Plaintiffs' computers is warranted. See, Henderson v. U.S. Bank, N.A., [2009 BL 92500], 2009 WL 1152019 (E.D.Wis., Apr. 29, 2009). Although Mr. Holthausen is of the opinion that the work orders in electronic format pre-dating Hurricane Wilma are unrecoverable, he is not a forensic expert by his own admission. Furthermore, there may be other documents contained on Plaintiffs' computer system that are responsive to Defendant's second request for production. There is no way to know for sure because according to Mr. Holthausen, he was unaware of this lawsuit until a few months ago and he has not made any effort to retrieve ESI in response to Defendant's discovery requests. The Plaintiffs' properties are extensive and the potential damages in this case considerable. Defendant is entitled to employ the discovery process to assist in preparing its defense.\
Mindful of the potential intrusiveness of a compelling a forensic examination, the Court will employ a collection and review protocol as outlined in Bank of Mongolia. The Court is aware that Plaintiffs are non-profit and acknowledges that this procedure is likely to be costly. Therefore, the Court sets forth the following procedure:\
1. An independent computer expert shall be appointed by the Court and shall mirror image Plaintiffs' computer system. (To the extent it is possible, the independent expert shall conduct his examination in a manner that minimizes the disruption to the operation of Plaintiffs' business.)\
[*688] 2. The parties have up through and including March 12, 2012, to meet and confer regarding their designation of an independent computer expert. If the parties cannot agree, on or before March 15, 2012, each party shall submit its recommendation to the Court, and the Court will select the expert.\
3. The appointed expert shall serve as an Officer of the Court. Thus, to the extent that this computer expert has direct or indirect access to information protected by attorney-client privilege, such disclosure will not result in any waiver of the Plaintiffs' privilege.\
4. The independent expert shall sign a confidentiality order. Additionally, the expert shall be allowed to hire other outside support if necessary in order to mirror image the Plaintiffs' computer system. Any outside support shall be required to sign the same confidentiality order.\
5. The expert shall mirror image the Plaintiffs' computer system.\
6. The Defendant shall provide a list of search terms to the Court to identify responsive documents to Defendant's document requests on or before March 15, 2012. After Defendant has submitted the search terms to the Court, Plaintiffs shall have 5 days to submit their objections to the Court regarding any of the search terms, which the court will rule upon. The Court will provide the search terms to the independent expert.\
7. Once the expert has mirror imaged the Plaintiffs' computer system, the expert shall search the mirror image results using the search terms. The results of the search terms and an electronic copy of all responsive documents shall be provided to the Plaintiffs and to the Court.\
8. The Plaintiffs shall review the search term results provided by the independent expert and identify all responsive documents. The Plaintiffs shall either produce all responsive documents to the Defendant or identify those responsive documents not produced on a privilege log to the Defendant within 20 days of the date that the Plaintiffs receive the search term results from the independent expert. Any privilege log produced shall comply strictly with the Local Rules for the Southern District of Florida.\
9. Defendant shall pay for all fees and costs of hiring the independent expert at this time. However, if at a later time there is evidence of the Plaintiffs improper deletion of electronic documents or any other associated improper conduct, the Court will revisit this issue and consider charging the Plaintiffs for the fees and costs of the independent expert or imposing the fees and costs on the parties in a duly appropriate apportioned manner.\
10. The independent expert shall provide a signed affidavit detailing the steps he or she took in mirror imaging the Plaintiffs' computer system and searching the mirror image for the search terms within 5 days of providing the Plaintiffs and the Court with the results of the search for search terms in the mirror image.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb108\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 III. CONCLUSION\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Based on the foregoing, and with the Court being advised, it is hereby\
ORDERED AND ADJUDGED that Defendant's Motion to Compel Production and Forensic Examination is GRANTED. The Court directs the parties to comply with all requirements and deadlines set forth in this Order.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0  \uc0\u8232 \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 1. These requests include No. 3 (recordings of meetings), No. 4 (recording of meetings since January 1992), No. 9 (maintenance and repair), No. 10 (maintenance and repair since January 1992), No. 13 (estimates supporting proof of loss), No. 14 (reasons for changing insurance coverage), No. 15 (building components), No. 16 (building components since January 1992), No. 17 (payments made for damages), No. 21 (hurricane damage of building components), No. 22 (hurricane damage of building components since 1992), No. 23 (condition of building components before or after 2004-2005 hurricanes), No. 24 (condition of building components before or after 2004-2005 hurricanes since 1992), No. 25 (damage to building components before or after 2004-2005 hurricanes), No. 26 (damage to building components before or after 2004-2005 hurricanes), No. 30 (communication to unit owners regarding maintenance/repairs), No. 31 (communication to unit owners regarding maintenance/repairs since January 1992), No. 46 (financial records), No. 47 (financial records since 1992), No. 50 (e-mails regarding maintenance/repairs), No. 51 (e-mails regarding maintenance repairs since January 1992), No. 52 (electronic media containing e-mails regarding maintenance/repairs), No. 53 (electronic media containing e-mails regarding maintenance/repairs since January 1992), No. 54 (e-mails regarding 2004-2005 hurricane damage), No. 55 (electronic media containing e-mails regarding 2004-2005 hurricane damage), No. 56 (e-mails regarding loss or damage), No. 57 (e-mails regarding loss or damage since January 1992), No. 58 (electronic media containing e-mails regarding loss or damage), No. 59 (electronic media containing e-mails regarding loss or damage since January 1992), No. 60 (e-mails regarding insurance claims), No. 61 (e-mails regarding insurance claims since January 1992), No. 62 (electronic media containing e-mails regarding insurance claims), No. 63 (electronic media containing e-mails regarding insurance claims since January 1992), and No. 72 (website postings regarding damages or maintenance/repairs). (DE 59, p. 3-4)\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 2. Evidently, Defendant served a first request for production of documents in April of 2011 which also sought electronically stored information. The Court notes that although Defendant complains about the sufficiency of the Plaintiffs' responses in an e-mail attachment to this motion, (DE 59-3), it has not moved to compel a better response to those requests.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 3. Defendant would reserve the right to shift the expense to Plaintiffs as a sanction under Rule 37 depending on the result of the forensic examination.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 4. Defendant suggests Robert Moody, J.D. and attached his affidavit and credentials to the motion.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 5. Of fifty employees, approximately 15 have work related e-mail accounts. (DE 68-5)\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 6. According to Jack Kubasek's deposition testimony, work orders would be routinely maintained in the maintenance department. (DE 59-4, pp. 57-60).\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 7. On October 12, Plaintiffs' shredded 30-35 bags/boxes of documents, and on October 21, 100 bankers boxes and file size boxes of documents.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 8. Defendant's Second Request for Production was served on October 14, 2011. Plaintiffs' written response was served with its Response to Defendant's Motion to Compel on January 11, 2012.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb566\sa1133\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0          
\f0\fs42 General Information\

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 Judge(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Lurana S. Snow\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Related Docket(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 0:10-cv-62411 (S.D. Fla.);\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Topic(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Civil Procedure\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Date Filed\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 2012-03-05 00:00:00\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Parties\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 QBE Insurance Corporation; Wynmoor Community Council, Inc.\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Court\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 United States District Court for the Southern District of Florida\cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\li674\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\fs20 \cf0 Pagination \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 *
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 BL
\f1\fs24 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\li674\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 United States District Court, M.D. Florida \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 TAMPA BAY WATER, Plaintiff, vs. HDR ENGINEERING, Inc., Defendant. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Case No. 8:08-CV-2446-T-27TBM. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 November 2, 2012. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
ORDER
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\
James D. Whittemore, District Judge 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\
In their contract, Tampa Bay Water and HDR Engineering agreed that the prevailing party in any litigation arising from their agreement would be entitled to recover all of its attorneys' fees, costs, and litigation expenses.[fn1] HDR is therefore entitled to an award of fees and costs. The parties have filed affidavits of their respective attorneys' fee experts, legal memoranda, and supporting evidence relating to HDR's attorneys' fees, costs, and expenses. An evidentiary hearing was held during which the parties' expert witnesses testified and argument was presented. In its motions and supplemental evidentiary submissions, HDR has requested a total of $10,474,291.50 in attorneys' fees, and $11,878,959.95 in litigation expenses and taxable costs. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 By any account, the amount of attorneys' fees to which HDR is entitled is extraordinary. Tampa Bay Water's fee expert opines that a reasonable attorneys' fee is between $5.1 and $5.5 million. HDR's fee expert opines, on the other hand, that a reasonable attorneys' fee is $9,772,406.70 and that the reasonable litigation expenses and taxable costs incurred by HDR amount to $11,103,671.80.[fn2] And while not determinative of the reasonableness of HDR's fees, costs, and expenses, it should be noted that Tampa Bay Water spent $5,347,233.00 in attorneys' fees and $6,281,116.97 in costs and expenses, adding some perspective to the fees and expenses sought by HDR. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Upon careful consideration, HDR is awarded $9,249,219.85 in attorneys' fees and $10,898,186.22 in litigation expenses and taxable costs.[fn3] To put this extraordinary fee and cost award in its proper perspective, the nature of the litigation must be considered. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 This was no ordinary engineering malpractice case. According to HDR's fee expert, Mr. Hill, "[t]he uniqueness of the design of the reservoir together with the exposure to HDR in a case tried to a jury combine to make this an unprecedented case" (Dkt. 653-3, p. 4). And Dennis Frostic, an attorney who was the "point person" for HDR's insurers with nearly 40 years experience working with insurers in large, complex cases, told Mr. Hill that to his knowledge, "this case is the largest engineering professional liability case ever tried to a jury" ( Id., p. 9). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 This case may be the largest engineering professional liability case, in terms of damages sought, ever tried to a jury (Dkt. 653-3, p. 9). Tampa Bay Water's initial demand from HDR was $225 million. In the parties' Joint Pretrial Statement, Tampa Bay Water projected that its total damages exceeded $131 million, plus interest, attorneys' fees and costs. At trial, Tampa Bay Water asked the jury to award it more than $100 million in damages from HDR (exclusive of attorneys' fees and expenses). The litigation spanned more than three years. After a five week trial, the jury returned a verdict in favor of HDR. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Background
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 HDR contracted with Tampa Bay Water to design the C.W. Bill Young [*2] Reservoir and was the Engineer of Record for the design and permitting of the Reservoir. By all accounts, the design of the reservoir was unique. A reservoir of its size had never been built before. It encompassed more than a thousand acres and was designed to hold approximately 15,500,000,000 gallons of surface water for use as a potable water supply. It took nearly three years to build. Tampa Bay Water began operating the Reservoir in June of 2005. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 In December of 2006, during the Reservoir's second draw-down cycle, unexpected cracking in the flat-plate soil cement was discovered. As the water elevation continued to be lowered, more cracking was discovered. Claiming that these cracks were the result of design errors and construction defects, Tampa Bay Water sued HDR, Construction Dynamics Group, Inc. ("CDG"), which served as the project's construction manager, Barnard Construction Company, Inc., the contractor, and Barnard's subcontractor, McDonald Construction Corporation. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Needless to say, the case has a lengthy and contentious history. Tampa Bay Water amended its original complaint twice. More than 20 experts were retained by the parties. The Joint Pretrial Statement listed seven trial experts for Tampa Bay Water, two for Barnard, and one for McDonald.[fn4] HDR listed nine expert witnesses. Discovery in the case included 2.7 million files comprising more than 17 million pages of documents (Dkt. 653-1, \'b6 17). Between Tampa Bay Water and HDR alone, 35 depositions were taken in 40 sessions over 80 days in eight cities in five different states, resulting in 19,000 pages of transcripts ( Id., \'b6 20). As of August 30, 2012, when Tampa Bay Water filed its Notice of Appeal, there were 678 separate docket entries, including 11 motions to strike, 2 motions to dismiss, 6 motions for protective order, 11 motions to compel, 3 motions to quash, a motion for sanctions, a motion for summary judgment (with two supplements), 4 Daubertmotions, 29 motions in limine, and dozens of non-substantive motions. Tampa Bay Water alone filed 11 motions in limine and 7 dispositive motions (Dkt. 653-2, \'b6 23). HDR was required to respond to "approximately 20 contested discovery-related and pre-trial motions" filed in the case by either Tampa Bay Water, Barnard or McDonald (Dkt. 653-1, \'b6 22). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 From the inception of the lawsuit, the battle lines were drawn, with HDR having to defend itself on all fronts, not just against Tampa Bay Water's claims. Barnard and McDonald also claimed that HDR's design was to blame for the unusual cracking in the Reservoir. In a sense, Tampa Bay Water, Barnard, and McDonald were aligned against HDR. Indeed, just two months before the pretrial conference, Tampa Bay Water settled with Barnard and McDonald utilizing a controversial "high-low" settlement agreement (Dkt. 307).[fn5]
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Significantly, the settlement agreement included 133 paragraphs of "Agreed Facts." These "Agreed Facts" effectively absolved Barnard and McDonald of any fault whatsoever. Curiously, Barnard agreed to participate in the trial but agreed not to present any evidence on Tampa Bay Water's claims, agreed to call certain [*3] witnesses but not to call other witnesses, and agreed not to file any trial and post-trial motions. These provisions resulted in yet another round of legal skirmishes between Tampa Bay Water and HDR in which HDR challenged the agreement as a collusive "Mary Carter" agreement (Dkt. 323). Based on the "Agreed Facts," summary judgment was entered in favor of Barnard and McDonald and against Tampa Bay Water, ending their participation in the case (Dkt. 417, Order granting summary judgment). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The parties actually prepared for trial twice, adding to the cost of the litigation. The trial was originally scheduled for the July 2011 trial term, but because of other docket demands, was passed over and placed on 'stand-by' status for September, 2011 due to its length and other calendar demands (Dkt. 444). In anticipation of trial, the parties filed numerous motions in limine and trial related motions, including three motions to strike filed by Tampa Bay Water directed to HDR's affirmative defenses. In short, the parties were gearing up for trial. Then, however, the landscape of the litigation changed substantially. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 In September of 2011, Tampa Bay Water announced that it had settled with HDR. The case was removed from the trial docket, dismissed without prejudice and administratively closed (Dkt. 454). Although Tampa Bay Water's Board of Directors initially voted to approve the settlement, it subsequently voted to reject it, and the case was re-opened (Dkt. 474). By then, HDR's agreement to pay Tampa Bay Water $30 million to settle the case had become public knowledge and generated extensive publicity. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The rejection of the settlement by Tampa Bay Water's Board and the highly publicized terms of the aborted settlement spawned more litigation, including HDR's motions to enforce the settlement and for a change in trial venue. Finally, despite numerous formal and informal attempts to resolve the case, the case proceeded to trial in March of 2012.[fn6]
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Before trial, Tampa Bay Water voluntarily dismissed Count III of the Amended Complaint, (breach of contract \'97 quality control) (Dkt. 558). The case was tried on Count One of Tampa Bay Water's Second Amended Complaint (breach of contract \'97 defective design) (Dkt. 386). Tampa Bay Water listed 25 potential witnesses in its final trial witness list and 505 potential exhibits. HDR listed 24 potential witnesses and 774 potential exhibits. The trial lasted 19 days over five weeks. Numerous expert and technical witnesses testified. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 In sum, the contentious nature of the litigation, the issues involved, and the length of trial generated extraordinary attorneys' fees for both sides. To the extent Tampa Bay Water criticizes HDR's attorneys for the number of hours they spent defending the case, one cannot reasonably quarrel with those efforts, considering the result obtained. Certainly, there were other considerations driving the attorneys. HDR's international engineering reputation was on the line. And the consequences of an adverse verdict in the range sought by Tampa Bay Water would have been devastating to HDR's employee [*4] owners. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 To appreciate the fees and expenses invested in this case by HDR, one must consider that Tampa Bay Water's initial demand of HDR was $225 million, well in excess of HDR's available insurance coverage. In the Pretrial Statement, Tampa Bay Water's damages, exclusive of pre-judgment interest, attorneys' fees and costs, was stated to be in excess of $131 million. At trial, Tampa Bay Water asked the jury to award it in excess of $100 million in damages (exclusive of attorneys' fees and costs). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Explaining the vigor with which HDR defended Tampa Bay Water's lawsuit, Mr. Hill noted that HDR is an employee-owned company and that Tampa Bay Water's claim "significantly exceeded the limits of (HDR's) insurance coverage." He opined that "an adverse verdict over the policy limits" would cause HDR and its employees to suffer "a severe financial impact" (Dkt. 653-3, p. 8). In sum, while the parties can debate whether this was or was not a "bet the company case," the stakes were considerable for HDR. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 It likewise bears noting that the voluminous pleadings filed by both sides significantly contributed to the extraordinary fees incurred in the case. As trial loomed, the numerous motions in limine filed by the parties (including lengthy supporting memoranda and numerous exhibits) became increasingly burdensome. Indeed, it was one of Tampa Bay Water's lengthy filings that prompted remedial measures by the Court. After Tampa Bay Water filed a 13 page motion in limine with 39 pages of exhibits on an issue which could have been adequately addressed in a 3 to 5 page motion, the Court noted that "[t]he motion invites a similarly lengthy response..." The parties were admonished that "[u]nnecessarily lengthy pleadings waste precious judicial resources and unnecessarily add tothe cost of litigation" (Dkt. 519, n. 2) (emphasis added). Thereafter, the parties' motions and responses were restricted to five pages (Dkt. 519). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 As discussed, the case involved somewhat atypical legal maneuvering which resulted in the expenditure of attorneys' fees which ordinarily would not have expected in litigation of this nature. First, there was Tampa Bay Water's controversial settlement with Barnard and McDonald. Then, as noted, Tampa Bay Water dropped its quality control breach of contract claim on the eve of trial, rendering the time HDR's attorneys spent preparing to defend that claim somewhat of a waste. Then there was Tampa Bay Water's aborted settlement with HDR. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Tampa Bay Water must therefore accept its proportionate share of responsibility for generating hundreds of thousands of dollars in fees incurred by HDR in responding to and in some instances challenging the events with which HDR was confronted. Indeed, Ben Hill, HDR's fee expert, implicitly suggested that Tampa Bay Water's litigation tactics significantly increased the fees incurred by the parties beyond what would reasonably have been expected if the case had just been tried on its merits. That is not to say, however, that those litigation tactics were unreasonable or vexatious, only that both sides share responsibility [*5] for the millions of dollars in fees being sought by HDR. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Simply put, this was an extraordinarily complex engineering malpractice case and trial, the facts of which were, according to Mr. Hill, "unprecedented." While the jury may have been asked to answer a single liability question, because of the highly technical subject matter and HDR's potential exposure, the extraordinary sums expended by HDR in its defense of Tampa Bay Water's claims is understandable, if not entirely justified. The efforts of HDR's attorneys were obviously not in vain. After just four hours, the jury returned its verdict in favor of HDR, an unsurprising result, as discussed in this Court's order denying Tampa Bay Water's motion for a new trial (Dkt. 671). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 HDR's fee expert, Benjamin Hill, is an experienced litigator who has tried several multi-million dollar construction/engineering cases to juries in state and federal courts. Drawing from his litigation experience in similar complex cases, he opines that the fee charged by HDR in this case was not "in excess of what would be expected for a similar case (if there is one)" (Dkt. 653-3, p. 30). Notwithstanding, and underscoring the objectivity with which he approached his task, he recommended across-the-board adjustments to the hours charged in several areas in arriving at what he opines is a reasonable fee using the lodestar approach. His total recommended lodestar is $9,772,406.70, notwithstanding that HDR actually paid its attorneys in excess of $10 million in fees.[fn7]
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 In analyzing the services rendered and hours of HDR's attorneys and staff, Mr. Hill divided the services into four phases, Phase I (initial investigation), Phase II (discovery), Phase III (trial preparation), and Phase IV (trial). Acknowledging the "inevitable duplication of effort associated with getting the Sedgwick firm up to speed" during the discovery phase and that this time "was likely less efficient than it could have been given the accelerated timeframe," he proposes an across-the-board 15% adjustment in that phase. He likewise applies a 5% across-the-board adjustment for the trial preparation phase (Phase III) "for the inevitable duplication of effort which occurs in a case of this size" ( Id., p. 39). In reviewing the time expended in Phase IV (trial), Mr. Hill opines that although the time is significant, he found it to be "in line with the time required to try a lengthy jury trial of this magnitude (essentially, every waking hour)" ( Id., p. 40). Mr. Hill's reasoned analysis and opinions are persuasive. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Like Mr. Hill, Tampa Bay Water's fee expert, John Vento, enjoys an excellent reputation in the state and federal legal community based on his professionalism, experience, and ability to try complex cases. Unlike Mr. Hill, however, Mr. Vento did not make a lodestar determination of what a reasonable fee would be in this case. Mr. Vento applied, in his words, a "global" approach to arrive at a reasonable fee, which he opines is between $5.1 and $5.5 million. While Mr. Vento's approach is certainly helpful in analyzing Tampa Bay Water's specific objections to certain services for which HDR seeks [*6] recovery, Mr. Hill's opinions are based on a more thorough review of the hours expended by HDR's attorneys, significantly, their redacted and unredacted time records. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Unlike Mr. Hill, Mr. Vento did not review any of the billing records of HDR's attorneys. Nor did he ask to review them. He explained that a review of those records would not have been helpful because he was not critical of specific time entries. Rather, he criticized certain general categories of services as unnecessary or unreasonable, such as the use of eighteen contract attorneys to review documents, attorney Steinmann's trial time, and billing Mr. Kent's services as "special counsel" to the Sedgwick firm. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Mr. Vento was critical of HDR for hiring out of state counsel. He acknowledged, however, that he is often retained to represent clients and litigate throughout Florida, and he recently tried a case in Texas. And he was not critical of Barnard for hiring out of town and out of state counsel. While he suggested that there were several Tampa area firms, including his own, which were capable of representing HDR, he conducted no conflict analysis with respect to any of those Tampa area firms. Moreover, he acknowledged that his firm typically sues engineers and does not represent engineers "like Mr. Woodward's firm." Mr. Hill, on the other hand, determined that several Tampa area firms, including his own, could not have represented HDR because of conflicts and that the hiring of out of state counsel by HDR was reasonable in this case. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Tampa Bay Water's several comparisons of the time and services rendered by Barnard's and McDonald's attorneys is unhelpful in determining a reasonable fee to which HDR is entitled. As noted, and contrary to Mr. Vento's understanding, it was apparent that Barnard and McDonald were essentially aligned against HDR, each contending that HDR's design was defective and that their construction of the embankment complied with HDR's design specifications. The services rendered by those attorneys cannot, therefore, be fairly compared in terms of reasonableness and necessity, considering the higher stakes HDR faced and the adverse postures of Barnard and McDonald. Indeed, during oral argument, Tampa Bay Water conceded that a "one to one" comparison of HDR's discovery efforts to Barnard's and McDonald's was not a fair comparison.[fn8]
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Nor can the hours spent by Tampa Bay Water's attorneys be fairly compared in determining what was reasonable and necessary for HDR's attorneys. SeeJohnson v. Univ. College of the Univ. of Ala. in Birmingham, 706 F.2d 1205, 1208 (11th Cir. 1983), cert. denied, 464 U.S. 994 (1983) (hours needed by one side to prepare may differ substantially from that of opposing counsel, since the nature of the work may vary dramatically and the case may have far greater precedential value to one side than the other); HCA HealthServs. of Fla., Inc., v. Hillman, 870 So.2d 104, 106 (Fla.2d DCA 2003) (fees of prevailing party cannot be predicated on fees of opponent). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Enforcement of parties' contract
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The substantive law of Florida controls the award of attorneys' fees in this diversity case. Insurance Co. of N. Am. v. Lexow[*7] , 937 F.2d 569, 571(11th Cir. 1991). As noted, HDR and Tampa Bay Water expressly agreed in their contract that the prevailing party in any litigation arising from their agreement "shall be entitled to recover all costs and expenses incurred, including, without limitation, attorneys' and legal assistants' fees and costs incurred prior to trial, at trial, on any appeal, and in any bankruptcy proceeding" (Dkt. 644-1, Agreement for Professional Services, \'b6 21.4). Provisions of this nature are generally enforced as indemnification agreements. North Am. Clearing, Inc. v. Brokerage Comp. Sys., Inc., 395 Fed. Appx. 563, 567 (11th Cir. 2010) (citing Lashkajani v. Lashkajani, 911 So.2d 1154, 1158 (Fla. 2005)). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 While the parties' contract provides for an award of "all" attorneys' fees, HDR requests only that a reasonable fee be awarded, consistent with Florida law. Dunn v. Sentry Ins., 462 So.2d 107, 108 (Fla. 5th DCA 1985) (contractual provision that losing party will pay prevailing party's attorneys' fees is agreement for indemnification, i.e., "to indemnify the prevailing party for fees reasonably contracted or incurred"). A reasonable attorneys' fee is determined by multiplying the number of hours reasonably expended by the reasonable hourly rate. Hensley v. Eckerhart, 461 U.S. 424, 433 (1983). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Here, the parties stipulated as reasonable the hourly rates for the various attorneys. They focus their dispute on the amount of time reasonably expended. In determining a reasonable fee in this case, the Court has not examined every hour billed for every service provided, a formidable task not required in this Circuit. See Kenny A. ex rel. Winn v. Perdue, 532 F.3d 1209, 1220 (11th Cir. 2008) (where billing records are voluminous, district court "may make a reasonable across the board reduction in hours instead of engaging in the pick and shovel work necessary to make a more precise determination"). Rather, representative unredacted billing invoices of HDR's attorneys have been reviewed in camera. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 In addition to attorneys' fees, HDR seeks to recover its litigation expenses and taxable costs. As noted, the parties' contract provided that the prevailing party is entitled to recover "all costs and expenses incurred" to the extent they are reasonable. A smaller subset of HDR's litigation expenses, consisting of the specific items identified by 28 U.S.C. \'a7 1920, may also be awarded as taxable costs. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 HDR's burden
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 HDR has satisfied its burden of "supplying the court with detailed evidence from which the court can determine a reasonable fee." Villano v.City of Boynton Beach, 254 F.3d 1302, 1311 (11th Cir. 2001) (quotation omitted). HDR has adequately documented the hours its attorneys and staffs spent. HDR has filed redacted billing invoices detailing the hours and services performed by its attorneys and their staffs. Unredacted copies have been submitted to the Court for an in camera review. Those billing invoices clearly describe the services rendered. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Redacted attorney billing invoices
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Tampa Bay Water acknowledges that "[a] party may assert privilege under the attorney-client or work-product doctrines in certain information contained in legal bills" (Dkt. 660, p. 6). It is apparent that Tampa Bay Water, unlike its fee expert, closely reviewed [*8] HDR's attorneys' redacted billing records, as demonstrated by its calculation that "HDR's two law firms combined redacted entries that account for 12,807.5 hours with a billed value of $3,306,846.50" (Dkt. 660, p. 7). To the extent Tampa Bay Water complains that the redacted billing invoices "prejudices [Tampa Bay Water] in its ability to meaningfully respond to the fee claim," that complaint is hollow at best, since Tampa Bay Water never sought access to the unredacted invoices. Nor did Tampa Bay Water object to an in camera review of the unredacted billing statements. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 As noted, the Court has conducted an in camera review of representative invoices from the four phases identified by Mr. Hill (initial investigation, discovery, trial preparation, and trial), as well as invoices from the post-trial period. See Almeida v. Amazon.com, Inc., 456 F.3d 1316, 1328(11th Cir. 2006) (approving district court's in camera review of unredacted billing statements in determining reasonable award of attorney's fees). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The review and comparison of representative redacted invoices with their unredacted counterparts supports Mr. Hill's finding that "[g]iven the procedural posture of this case the redactions were reasonable and necessary to protect information that is privileged, confidential, or if revealed to Tampa Bay Water would be detrimental to HDR if this case is appealed and/or re-tried" (Dkt. 672-2, \'b6 1). To be sure, several redactions were made of material that was arguably not work-product or protected by the attorney-client privilege. However, that information, as Mr. Hill noted, was properly deemed confidential or determined to be detrimental to HDR if this case was retried. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 In any event, the issue is not whether HDR's redactions were proper but whether its redacted entries reflect attorney work that was reasonable and necessary. For the most part, this can be determined without examining the unredacted invoices. Most entries were not severely redacted. Mr. Mason represented during oral argument that 12% of the billing invoices contained "complete redactions." However, based on the Court's review, the "complete redactions" referred to by Mr. Mason were not, in fact, fully redacted entries but, instead, maintained descriptive words of the services performed, such as "teleconference," "research," or "review." Even from the redacted entries, a determination could be made that the time was spent performing legal research or discussing this case with individuals whose identities had been redacted. See Oxford Asset Mgmt., Ltd. v. Jaharis, 297 F.3d 1182, 1197 (11th Cir. 2002). Moreover, Mr. Hill reviewed the unredacted invoices (Dkt. 672-2, p. 2). His expert opinion supports the Court's finding that the redacted invoices do not prevent a determination of the hours spent and the reasonableness and necessity of the services provided by the attorneys and their staffs, contrary to Tampa Bay Water's protestations. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The vast majority of the redactions consist of services that were both reasonable and necessary. To the extent there is any inefficiency or duplication reflected in the unredacted billing entries, [*9] it is no more extensive than that which appears in the redacted entries. Therefore, any acrossthe-board reductions for inefficiency or duplication (discussed below) will be applied equally to all billing records, redacted and unredacted, to capture such matters in the redacted portions of the records. The in camerareview did, however, reveal isolated instances of time spent on matters that were collateral to the litigation, such as review of media reports and articles, which cannot be fairly passed along to Tampa Bay Water. These entries were small in number, however, warranting an across-the-board reduction of only 0.1%, or $10,474.29 . 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Further, Tampa Bay Water's contention that the time HDR's attorneys spent in redacting their invoices should not be awarded is persuasive. Although necessary to protect privileged communications, it is unreasonable to pass the cost of the redaction efforts on to Tampa Bay Water. Accordingly, all time spent redacting invoices, with a billed value of $24,740.00 , will be deducted from HDR's fee claim. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Tampa Bay Water's burden
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 In opposing HDR's fee application, Tampa Bay Water has an obligation to raise specific objections that are "reasonably precise." American CivilLiberties Union of Ga. v. Barnes, 168 F.3d 423, 428-29 (11th Cir. 1999) ("The more specific the objections to a fee application are, the more specific the findings and reasons for rejecting those objections can be."). Significantly, rather than raise objections to specific hours billed by HDR's attorneys, Tampa Bay Water raises several broad objections to specific categories of services provided by HDR's attorneys. Tampa Bay Water's objections will therefore be considered in that context.[fn9]
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Billing judgment
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Fee applicants must use "billing judgment," which means that "'excessive, redundant or otherwise unnecessary' hours should be excluded from the amount claimed." Norman v. Housing Auth. of Montgomery, 836 F.2d 1292, 1301 (11th Cir. 1988) (quoting Hensley, 461 U.S. at 434, 437). To the extent Tampa Bay Water contends that "[t]here is no evidence that anybody at F&D applied the required billing judgment with respect to fees charged by that firm," that contention is contradicted by Tampa Bay Water's acknowledgment in the very next sentence that Mr. Woodward avers in his affidavit that his firm made downward adjustments of fees and expenses (Dkt. 660, p. 4). Indeed, Mr. Woodward avers that he reviewed all invoices before they were submitted to HDR and "made some downward adjustments of both fees and expenses" (Dkt. 653-2, \'b6\'b6 12, 13). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 With respect to the responsibility of the Sedgwick firm to exercise billing judgment, the record includes the affidavit of Mr. Mason who avers that he and his trial team members "reviewed each invoice before finalizing and submitting it to HDR" and "exercised prudent judgment to determine an appropriate amount to bill each month." (Dkt. 653-1, \'b6 36). In sum, the Court is satisfied, based on Woodward's and Mason's affidavits, that they exercised appropriate billing judgment, eliminating what they considered to be excessive, redundant or otherwise unnecessary hours. Tampa Bay Water has not articulated [*10] any legitimate criticism directed to the absence of billing judgment, and in any event fails to raise "reasonably precise" objections in that regard. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Fees for work with experts either excluded or withdrawn
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Without citing any authority, Tampa Bay Water asserts that any attorneys' fees "for work in connection with" expert witnesses who were either excluded by the court (Johnson) or withdrawn by HDR (McKellar) "should not be awarded to HDR" (Dkt. 660, p. 5). Tampa Bay Water provides no explanation for why it was unreasonable or unnecessary for HDR's attorneys to consult with these experts as part of their investigation and preparation of its defense. Nor does Tampa Bay Water state any specific objections to any time spent by HDR's attorneys in connection with these experts. In short, Tampa Bay Water has not raised a reasonably precise reason for disallowing this time. Its objection is therefore overruled. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Multiple attorneys
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Tampa Bay Water next challenges HDR's use of multiple attorneys to work on pleadings and to attend hearings, depositions, and trial. Tampa Bay Water acknowledges, however, that this Circuit recognizes that "[t]here is nothing inherently unreasonable about a client having multiple attorneys, and they may all be compensated if they are not unreasonably doing the same work and are being compensated for the distinct contribution of each lawyer." Norman, 836 F.2d at 1302. To recover for the hours of multiple attorneys, HDR bears the "burden of showing that the time spent by those attorneys reflects the distinct contribution of each lawyer to the case and is the customary practice of multiple-lawyer litigation." Barnes, 168 F.3d at 432. A reduction in hours for redundancy is warranted "only if the attorneys are unreasonably doing the same work." Id.
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Relevant to Tampa Bay Water's criticism of the number of attorneys assigned to various tasks by the Sedgwick firm, Mr. Hill correctly noted that between Tampa Bay Water, Barnard and McDonald, at least seventeen attorneys appeared of record either on the docket or during depositions, all of whom were aligned against HDR. And this excludes the five attorneys who represented CDG, which settled in August 2010, months before discovery closed (Dkts. 227, 244, 252). Considering the nature of the case, it was entirely reasonable for both parties to have had multiple attorneys and staff assisting in their respective representations. HDR is therefore entitled to recover for services rendered by its several attorneys, so long as they were not doing the same work. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 In his affidavit, Mr. Mason identifies the attorneys who worked on this case and describes their responsibilities and the distinct contributions of each attorney (Dkt. 653-1, \'b6\'b6 33, 34). It is fair to say, however, that duplication inevitably occurred, notwithstanding the efforts to avoid duplication of services. Mr. Hill, relying on the "inevitable duplication" of effort by HDR's counsel during the discovery phase, or what he refers to as the "ramp up" time after the Sedgwick firm was retained, made an across-the-board adjustment to the Sedgwick firm's hours [*11] of 15%, or $510,575.25 (Dkt. 653-3, p. 36). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Bringing in the Sedgwick firm after the litigation was underway was HDR's right. However, HDR had already paid for one law firm, Forisz and Dogali, to become familiar with and prepare to litigate this action. That cost has already been passed on to Tampa Bay Water, and it is not reasonable for Tampa Bay Water to bear the cost for two law firms to get up to speed. Based on a careful review of the invoices, and noting the "ramp up" cost associated with bringing in another law firm, as well as the sheer number of billers utilized by Sedgwick, the Court finds that a 20% reduction of Sedgwick's time, or $680,767.00 , is appropriate for the inevitable duplication of effort that occurred during this phase.[fn10]
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 With respect to the trial preparation phase (Phase III), Mr. Hill made an across-the-board adjustment of 5% ($166,139.85) for work performed by Sedgwick, again on the basis of "inevitable duplication" (Dkt. 653-3, p. 39). The Court likewise agrees that an across-the-board adjustment is appropriate for inevitable duplication during this phase of the case. That adjustment, however, should be somewhat higher than recommended by Mr. Hill. As noted by Tampa Bay Water, Sedgwick utilized a large number of billers during this phase, and an in camera review of representative redacted and unredacted invoices revealed some duplication of efforts, albeit inevitable. The Court therefore concludes that a 10% adjustment for the Sedgwick firm's time during this phase is appropriate, in the amount of $332,279.70 .[fn11]
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Special counsel
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Mr. Vento submits that no Sedgwick attorneys who are considered "Special Counsel" should have billed to the file, specifically Mr. Kent. Mr. Vento assumes that this title equates to non-equity partner and suggests that it was redundant, unnecessary, or excessive to utilize special counsel in the case. But the standard for determining whether to award fees for work performed by multiple attorneys has nothing to do with the attorneys' titles within the law firm. As the Eleventh Circuit explains, "[t]he retaining of multiple attorneys in a significant, lengthy... case such as this one is understandable and not a ground for reducing the hours claimed." Johnson, 706 F.2d at 1208. "[A] reduction is warranted only if the attorneys are unreasonably doing the same work." Id.
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Based on Mr. Hill's and Mr. Mason's descriptions of each attorney's responsibilities, Mr. Kent made a distinct contribution to the case, and his work was not redundant of any other attorneys. Indeed, Mr. Kent was an active participant in various trial and pretrial hearings. To the extent Mr. Vento suggests that the tasks performed by Mr. Kent could have been accomplished by other attorneys, his position, at best, is that the addition of Mr. Kent caused some inevitable duplication. Because appropriate reductions have been made for duplicative work, no further reduction is warranted for the use of "Special Counsel." 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Work performed by multiple attorneys
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 In addition to its broad objection that multiple attorneys billed to the file, Tampa Bay Water criticizes certain tasks performed by those [*12] attorneys. First, Tampa Bay Water challenges what it characterizes as "instances of multiple attorneys reviewing pleadings, documents or drafts of documents, or reviewing the same research, or otherwise duplicating effort" (Dkt. 660, p. 10). Tampa Bay Water cites no examples, however, of any such duplicative work. To the extent, therefore, this passing contention is unsupported by references to specific time entries or groups of time entries, it is not sufficiently specific to warrant consideration. And a fair inference can be drawn that Mr. Hill's reductions for "inevitable duplication" of work during the discovery and trial preparation phases reflect the kind of duplication Tampa Bay Water contends, but fails to demonstrate, are reflected in the billing records. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Next, under the heading "Multiple Attorneys Attending Hearings," Tampa Bay Water cites authority for the principle that "time billed for an excessive number of lawyers in a court room or conference, 'may obviously be discounted'" (Dkt. 660, p. 10). Again, however, Tampa Bay Water cites no examples supporting a reduction in hours under this principle, merely concluding this section of its memorandum with the unremarkable statement: "Similarly, there was not a single hearing, status conference or other proceeding in this case that was not manned with multiple attorneys on behalf of HDR" (Dkt. 660, p. 11). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Notwithstanding Tampa Bay Water's failure to offer examples of excessive attorney participation in hearings, the undersigned conducted all of the hearings in this case other than those presided over by the Magistrate Judge, and is in a unique position to determine whether multiple representation during court proceedings was reasonably necessary. It was and is apparent to the undersigned, as the docket entries demonstrate, that it was unnecessary for multiple attorneys to appear in court on behalf of HDR at every hearing. The exceptions, of course, are the pretrial conference at which each attorney participating in the trial is required to attend, and those hearings where more than one attorney had an assigned role, either to present legal argument, participate in case management discussions, or to examine witnesses. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 An example of unnecessary attorney presence on behalf of HDR was demonstrated during the hearings on fees and costs, during which HDR had two or more attorneys present, a fact noted on the record by the Court. That is not to say, however, that HDR did not benefit from having multiple attorneys present during hearings, or that there was anything inappropriate about that, merely that the expense of multiple attorneys should not be reasonably passed on to Tampa Bay Water. An additional across-the-board adjustment is therefore appropriate to reflect this, albeit a relatively nominal one. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 A review of the docket demonstrates that, apart from the pretrial conference and trial itself, extensive hearings were not conducted in the case. There were just two hearings in the discovery phase, five hearings in the trial preparation phase, several hearings [*13] during the course of trial, and two days of hearings on the motion for fees and costs. Given the small proportion of time spent in hearings relative to the total time billed by HDR's attorneys, the across-the-board reduction will be limited to 0.5% of the total time billed in all phases, including post-trial.[fn12] HDR's fee request is therefore reduced by an additional $52,371.46 . 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Multiple attorneys attending trial
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 During trial, each of HDR's attorneys who actively took part in the trial were responsible for specific witnesses or discrete tasks. This was an entirely appropriate team approach to complex litigation, as recognized in 1983 in this Circuit. Johnson, 706 F.2d at 1208 (retaining of multiple attorneys in a significant, lengthy case is understandable and not a ground for reducing the hours claimed; use of a team of attorneys in involved litigation who divide up the work is common today for both plaintiff and defense work). After considering the manner in which HDR was defended, this Court has no quarrel with HDR's team approach to trying the case, at least insofar as the courtroom time reflects that the attorneys divided up trial responsibilities. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Significant to Tampa Bay Water's criticism of HDR having five attorneys representing it during trial, Tampa Bay Water acknowledged during oral argument that it also had five attorneys assisting in Tampa Bay Water's representation during trial. Again, there can be no reasonable criticism of either party having a team of attorneys and staff assisting in the trial of this case. A team approach was certainly reasonable and necessary for an effective presentation of the technical evidence to the jury. Accordingly, other than attorney Steinmann's trial time (and the reduction for hearings during trial, as noted above), there is no need to adjust HDR's attorneys' time for the trial. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Attorney Steinmann's time
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Tampa Bay Water challenges the reasonableness and necessity of Sedgwick associate Cori Steinmann's time. Tampa Bay Water contends that it should not be "legally obliged to pay" for the trial time of Ms. Steinmann, citing authority which deducted time for two attorneys who billed for trial time but did not actively participate in that particular trial (Dkt. 660, p. 11). Ms. Steinmann, according to Mr. Mason, observed the trial each day in the courtroom and took notes of each day's proceedings and prepared outlines for witness examinations for Mr. Mason's use. She was, according to Mr. Mason, "fully engaged" in the trial, assisting with discovery and documents, which she knew "like no one else." She was in charge of the demonstrative exhibits and photographic evidence and exercised legal judgment in pulling evidence for use by the attorneys conducting examinations of witnesses. Another of her functions, albeit limited, was to summarize each day's proceedings and communicate that to the client. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The Court agrees with Tampa Bay Water and Mr. Vento that Tampa Bay Water should not be responsible for all of attorney Steinmann's time, however useful her time was in assisting Mr. Mason and his trial team in preparing [*14] for the next trial day. While Mr. Meaders and Mr. Kent were not in the courtroom every single day during trial, they were certainly present most of the time. Mr. Mason and Mr. Woodward were present every day. Ms. Steinmann's presence in the courtroom was therefore unreasonably duplicative, particularly during hearings conducted outside the presence of the jury, opening statements and closing argument. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Notwithstanding, attorney Steinmann no doubt served an important and necessary role in managing the evidence and demonstrative exhibits and assisting Mr. Mason in preparing for the next day's testimony. And it was certainly reasonable for Mr. Mason to have an attorney, as opposed to a non-attorney, observe the trial and assist him in preparing the examination of witnesses. The Court determines, therefore, that an across-the-board reduction of 50% of Ms. Steinmann's time during the trial phase, or $103,482.50 , is appropriate, representing the time she spent summarizing the case for the client, the duplication of trial time with the other attorneys, her presence during matters conducted outside the presence of the jury, and her presence during other non-testimonial stages of the trial. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Multiple senior attorneys attending depositions
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Tampa Bay Water's complaint that HDR had "multiple senior attorneys" attending depositions is somewhat misleading. Tampa Bay Water acknowledges that HDR had only two attorneys attend some, but not all of the depositions. Moreover, Tampa Bay Water's criticism is somewhat hollow since it acknowledged during oral argument that it did the same for some depositions, although fewer than HDR. Regardless, the Court finds that having two attorneys present during the depositions in this case was entirely reasonable, if not necessary, considering the nature of the litigation, the number of experts deposed, and the highly technical subject matter of those depositions. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 During oral argument, HDR's lead counsel, Mr. Mason, explained that it was his judgment call to have Mr. Woodward present as the second attorney during several of the depositions because of his expertise in construction and because he had been on the case from the beginning. The presence of Mr. Woodward was therefore reasonable and necessary to assist Mr. Mason in effectively deposing these witnesses. Considering the complexity of the evidence and that many of those depositions were of expert witnesses, the Court finds no valid justification for reducing the number of hours billed by HDR's attorneys just because two of them attended the same deposition on occasion. And Tampa Bay Water proffers no specific examples demonstrating otherwise. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Engaging out-of-state counsel
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Tampa Bay Water argues HDR should not be entitled to recover for travel time of its out-of-state attorneys. "[T]he exclusion of out-of-town counsel's travel time is proper only if it was unreasonable not to hire qualified local counsel." Johnson, 706 F.2d at 1208. As for whether it was reasonable for HDR to retain an out-of-state law firm to represent it at trial, instructive is Mr. [*15] Hill's determination that several otherwise qualified firms in the Tampa area, including his own firm, had conflicts which would have prevented those firms from representing HDR. He also points out that contrary to Tampa Bay Water's contentions, Carlton Fields, another Tampa firm, could not have represented HDR because it represented Barnard in unrelated litigation when Tampa Bay Water filed this lawsuit (Dkt. 672-2, p. 3). He also noted the practical conflicts which likely would have precluded other local firms from representing Tampa Bay Water because of the many "political subdivisions that make up Tampa Bay Water (such as Hillsborough County, Pinellas County, Pasco County, the City of Tampa, and the City of St. Petersburg)," all of whom are current or former clients of local firms. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 When the case was filed, HDR was represented by the Tampa firm of Forizs & Dogali. Tim Woodward of that firm actively participated in HDR's defense at trial. In 2009, when it became apparent the case would not settle, HDR consulted with its insurers and together they agreed to retain the Sedgwick firm. Wayne Mason from the firm's Dallas office was selected as lead attorney. One of HDR's insurers had experience with Mr. Mason in other large, complex cases and had confidence in his ability to defend HDR in a case of this nature. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Notwithstanding the capability of Mr. Woodward and his firm, HDR's decision to engage the Sedgwick firm and Mr. Mason as lead counsel was entirely reasonable, for the reasons articulated by Mr. Hill in his testimony and fee affidavit. Mr. Hill opined that the nature of the case, including its size, the complexity of the technology involved, and the requisite skill and ability to try a case like this "required a level of skill and experience only a very small percentage of lawyers have" (Dkt. 653-3, pp. 21-22). Unquestionably, Mr. Mason and his firm possess that level of skill and experience, as demonstrated throughout this litigation and by the verdict. While there may very well have been conflict-free law firms in the Tampa area which could have handled this case, it was certainly reasonable for HDR and its insurers to select an attorney with whom the insurer had experience in similarly complex cases, particularly considering the complexity of the litigation and stakes involved. HDR is therefore entitled to recover the travel time of its out of state counsel. SeeJohnson, 706 F.2d at 1208. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 HDR also requests the travel expenses for its out-of-state counsel, as the contract provides for "all costs and expenses incurred..." (Dkt. 644-1, Agreement for Professional Services, \'b6 21.4). Because it was reasonable for HDR to retain out-of-state counsel, HDR is entitled to recover its attorney's reasonable travel expenses under the contract, as well as expenses for shipping case files, exhibits, and supplies. However, the Court agrees that the expense of establishing a "war room" or "virtual office" in Tampa and filling it with rented office equipment is not something that should be passed on to Tampa Bay Water, particularly when HDR had also retained local counsel with offices [*16] in Tampa. Centex-Rooney Const. Co., Inc.v. Martin Cnty., 725 So.2d 1255, 1261 (Fla. 4th DCA 1999) (reversing award of time charged to set up and dismantle an office at the site of the trial). Accordingly, $128,472.57 will be deducted from HDR's claim for litigation expenses. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Contract attorneys
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Tampa Bay Water's expert opines that HDR's use of contract attorneys at a rate of $85.00 per hour was unnecessary and ineffective and that their fees should be reduced by 50%. Mr. Hill observed that contract attorneys were tasked with reviewing and coding documents (Dkt. 653-3, p. 35). This was confirmed by Mr. Mason, who averred that contract attorneys reviewed and coded the document productions for responsiveness and privilege (Dkt. 653-1, \'b6 13; Dkt. 672-1, p. 6, \'b6 15). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Mr. Vento suggests that the fees incurred by contract attorneys were unreasonable because the contract attorneys made errors which resulted in the inadvertent disclosure of privileged documents. As HDR explained in its reply brief, the production of privileged documents was caused by a vendor computer error, not contract attorneys (Dkt. 672, p. 6). Further, given the 17 million pages of documents in this case, it is unrealistic to assume that there would be no inadvertent production of privileged documents. Indeed, it appears that Tampa Bay Water may have inadvertently produced some 23,000 privileged documents (Dkt. 316-12, Meaders Aff. \'b6 6). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Mr. Vento also contends that contract attorneys performed work that was duplicative of outside vendors. But as Mr. Mason explained, outside vendors performed "objective coding," which involved reviewing documents and noting items such as the author, recipient, date, and document type. Internal teams, which included the contract attorneys, were tasked with "issue coding," which involved a more thorough review of the documents for privilege, responsiveness, and substantive issues. There was, therefore, no duplication in the coding process. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 To the extent Tampa Bay Water objects to the number of contract attorneys used by HDR, it misses the point. The review and coding of some 17 million pages of documents requires the same number of hours, whether the work is performed by one contract attorney or twenty-eight. While the contract attorneys' fees are not insubstantial, it was certainly reasonable for HDR to utilize these individuals to conduct an adequate review of the massive volume of documents, whether it was eight or eighteen. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 As noted, Mr. Hill recommended that all Sedgwick fees in the discovery and trial preparation phases, which included the fees billed by contract attorneys, be subject to an across-the-board reduction due to inevitable duplication. Since contract attorneys' fees have already been reduced as part of the overall reduction of Sedgwick's fees, no further reductions are necessary. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Paralegals
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Tampa Bay Water argues that HDR should be limited to the recovery of paralegal fees that were charged for work that is traditionally performed by an attorney. This distinction is without substance, given that the parties' contract provided for the prevailing party to recover "[*17] all costs and expenses incurred, including, without limitation, attorneys' and legal assistants' fees and costs incurred," not just attorneys' fees (Dkt. 644-1, Agreement for Professional Services, \'b6 21.4). To the extent Mr. Vento suggests that paralegals billed for administrative tasks, such as scheduling depositions and witness preparation, such fees are nonetheless recoverable under the contract, which provided for an award of "all costs and expenses" and specifically mentioned work performed by legal assistants, which includes time billed on administrative tasks. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Mr. Vento challenges the assertion that HDR's paralegals reviewed and coded documents, suggesting that this work was done entirely by outside vendors. As discussed, outside vendors performed different layers of coding than paralegals and contract attorneys. Paralegal time reviewing and coding documents was certainly necessary and reasonable. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Mr. Vento opines that HDR's use of 28 paralegals was unreasonable, as the other Defendants employed no more than two paralegals. For reasons previously discussed, the manner in which Barnard and CDG managed the case does not offer a fair comparison. And while Mr. Vento is correct that 28 paralegals billed to the file, the records show that the vast majority of the work was performed by just four paralegals, who billed a total of 8,700 hours. The remaining 1,500 hours were divided among 24 paralegals, seven of which billed less than ten hours. While the total number of hours was indeed sizeable, that is understandable and therefore reasonable considering the massive nature of the litigation. That required HDR to be efficient, and effective, in marshaling, organizing, reviewing, and utilizing the 17 million pages of documents. Under the circumstances, the manner in which HDR used its paralegals was not unreasonable. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Mr. Hill recommended across-the-board reductions to all of Sedgwick's time in the discovery and trial preparation phases, which included time billed by paralegals. Accordingly, no further reduction will be made for paralegal time. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Motions without merit
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 As noted, Tampa Bay Water's decision to renege on the settlement with HDR resulted in a highly publicized disclosure that HDR had agreed to settle the case for $30 million. HDR accordingly sought a change of venue, which was successfully opposed by Tampa Bay Water. Tampa Bay Water contends that HDR's change of venue motion was without authority and therefore without merit, and any fees generated by that work was unreasonable. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Contrary to Tampa Bay Water's contention, HDR's motion was not so utterly lacking in merit to preclude an award of fees for the hours HDR's attorneys devoted to the motion and hearing. Indeed, in the motion, HDR cited cases which granted contested venue transfers, although none addressed the specific basis on which HDR's motion was denied. Further, HDR's motion relied on data collected by a consulting company hired to perform market research to determine the extent to which the jury pool was aware of the failed settlement [*18] agreement. Indeed, that information was influential in the Court's decision to utilize a carefully-worded jury questionnaire coupled with individual questioning of potential jurors to ensure that prospective jurors had not been exposed to media reports of the aborted settlement. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Under the circumstances (which were brought on solely by Tampa Bay Water's actions), it was reasonable for HDR to collect data regarding the jury pool's knowledge of the settlement and to file the change of venue motion. HDR is entitled to recover for fees incurred in these efforts, notwithstanding that they were unsuccessful. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Expert witnesses
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Tampa Bay Water filed the affidavit of its lead trial attorney, Mr. Harrison, who opines that it was unreasonable for HDR to use more expert witnesses than Tampa Bay Water.[fn13] At trial, Tampa Bay Water's expert witness, Dr. Brumund, offered opinions on multiple topics, from the cause of the cracking to deficiencies in HDR's design, the standard of care, and the design of repairs and remediation. HDR used several different expert witnesses to address these issues. Dr. Bromwell testified as to causation, Mr. Wooten testified as to the standard of care. Mr. Kelley testified about Tampa Bay Water's proposed remedial design. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Mr. Harrison postulates that this "unnecessary duplication of experts obviously comes at some expense" (Dkt. 662, \'b6 53). But there was nothing unreasonable in having multiple expert witnesses, with each testifying in his own area of expertise. An expert must be qualified in the specific area of his or her opinion testimony, and it was perfectly reasonable for HDR to present the expert witnesses who, in its belief, were the most qualified to testify about each topic. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Mr. Harrison asserts that HDR has not demonstrated how the work performed by one of its consulting experts, Genterra Consultants, was different than that of its testifying witnesses. Genterra's services, however, were sufficiently described in the affidavit of Joe Kulikowski (Dkt. 653-8). Moreover, Tampa Bay Water has not explained why it was unreasonable or unnecessary for HDR's attorneys to consult with Genterra in investigating and preparing its defense. Multiple engineers had investigated the cracking both before and after suit was filed. No clear consensus emerged, and even throughout trial, the experts continued to disagree about the cause of the cracking. Under the circumstances of this highly technical, complex case, it was perfectly reasonable for HDR to consult with multiple expert witnesses, including Genterra, in investigating and preparing its defense. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Notwithstanding, Mr. Hill recommends that Genterra's fees be reduced by 60% because HDR determined during the discovery phase that Genterra's services would not be needed on an ongoing basis. Mr. Hill suggested recovery of 40% of Genterra's fees based on certain modeling Genterra created which was utilized by HDR's other experts. Mr. Hill's recommended 60% reduction appears fair under the circumstances. Accordingly, HDR's request for litigation expenses will [*19] be reduced by $766,697.33 . 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Use of technology at trial
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Tampa Bay Water criticizes the reasonableness of HDR's use of technology at trial, particularly, its purchase or rental of a "smartboard," which is essentially a large, interactive whiteboard. As HDR made clear, however, it is not seeking to recover any expenses related to the smartboard itself (Dkt. 672-1, \'b6 19). Tampa Bay Water also challenges HDR's payment of some $300,000 in other technology \'97 related services, which was considerably more than the $111,000 spent by Tampa Bay Water. From the perspective of the presiding judge, however, the technology HDR utilized at trial was incredibly effective in explaining the design and construction of the reservoir and in assisting the jury in understanding the theories espoused by the competing experts. While HDR's expenditures may indeed have exceeded Tampa Bay Water's, the technology expenses HDR incurred at trial were reasonable under the circumstances. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Pro Hac Vice costs
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 HDR requests an award of $50 in pro hac vice fees under 28 U.S.C. \'a7 1920or, alternatively, the contract. While Tampa Bay Water is correct that such fees are not properly taxed under \'a7 1920, Eagle Ins. Co. v. Johnson, 982 F. Supp. 1456, 1459-60 (M.D. Ala. 1997), aff'd, 162 F.3d 98 (11th Cir. 1998), they were reasonably incurred and will be awarded as agreed in the parties' contract. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Service of Subpoenas
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Private process server fees may be awarded under \'a7 1920(1), to the extent they "do not exceed the statutory fees authorized in \'a7 1921," which is $55.00 per hour for each item served, plus travel costs and out-of-pocket expenses. E.E.O.C. v. W & O, Inc., 213 F.3d 600, 624 (11th Cir. 2000); 28 C.F.R. \'a7 0.114(a)(3). HDR has not documented its process servers' costs or expenses, and therefore the recoverable fee is $55.00 per item or the actual amount charged, whichever is less. See James v. Wash Depot Holdings,Inc., 242 F.R.D. 645, 649-50 (S.D. Fla. 2007). "[R]ush fees" are not compensable. See id. at 650. Further, service of subpoenas on unidentified individuals will not be awarded. Nor will multiple charges for attempting to serve the same individual at different addresses. Accordingly, HDR's request for costs will be reduced by $1,048.04 . 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Transcript costs
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 "Fees for printed or electronically recorded transcripts necessarily obtained for use in the case" may be taxed under \'a7 1920(2). HDR requests costs for transcripts of pretrial hearings, the trial, and numerous depositions. The pretrial hearing transcripts were necessary for use in the lengthy and complex trial. Those transcripts were cited by the parties and, in at least one instance, relied on by the Court. Although most pretrial hearings were transcribed at minimal cost, HDR requested transcripts of the pretrial conference and motions in limine hearing on an expedited basis, resulting in a higher rate. But as the invoice shows, HDR waited two weeks before placing its order. The additional expense was not necessary or reasonably incurred, and therefore will not be taxed as a cost or awarded under the parties' contract. This invoice will be reduced to $280, based on the reporter's ordinary rate, for a total reduction of $942.20 . 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Daily trial transcripts were cited by the parties on multiple occasions. [*20] And, as was explained at the hearing, HDR's counsel and expert witnesses relied on daily transcripts throughout the trial. Given the length and complexity of the trial, daily transcripts were both reasonable and necessary and will be awarded under the parties' contract. See MarisDistrib. Co. v. Anheuser-Busch, Inc., 302 F.3d 1207, 1226 (11th Cir. 2002). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Tampa Bay Water does not argue that any deposition transcripts were not necessary for use in the case. It objects to costs for video depositions, copies of deposition exhibits, electronic and ASCII transcripts, shipping costs, and formatting video transcripts. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Where a party properly notices a videotaped deposition and no objection was made, it is appropriate to award costs for videotaping and transcribing the deposition. Morrison v. Reichhold Chems., Inc., 97 F.3d 460, 464-65(11th Cir. 1996). There is no evidence that Tampa Bay Water objected to the videotaping of any depositions. Several videotaped depositions were played at trial, which was often necessitated by the unavailability of the respective witnesses. And transcripts were required under Rule 32(c) and necessary for preparing appropriate deposition designations. HDR is therefore entitled to recover the costs of videotaping and transcribing the depositions. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Exhibits to deposition transcripts may be taxed as "costs of making copies of any materials where the copies are necessarily obtained for use in the case." \'a7 1920(4). In this document-intensive case, copies of exhibits were necessary for understanding and accurately preserving the testimony of the dozens of fact and expert witnesses that were deposed. Costs for exhibits to the deposition transcripts therefore will be awarded. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Postage costs are not taxable under the statute. See Duckworth v.Whisenant, 97 F.3d 1393, 1399 (11th Cir. 1996). Nor are charges for expedited transcripts, condensed transcripts, ASCII or electronic transcripts, and formatting or synchronizing video depositions. Ferguson v.Bombardier Servs. Corp., [2007 BL 226371], 2007 WL 601921, at*4 (M.D. Fla. Feb. 21, 2007); Waste Servs., Inc. v. Waste Mgmt., Inc., No. 6:05-cv-320-Orl-22DAB, [2007 BL 7119], 2007 WL 1174116, at*4-*5 (M.D. Fla. Apr. 18, 2007). However, those items were reasonably incurred and will be awarded under the parties' contract. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Witness expenses
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Witness fees are limited to "$40 per day for each day's attendance," as well as "for the time necessarily occupied in going to and returning from the place of attendance at the beginning and end of such attendance or at any time during such attendance." 28 U.S.C. \'a7 1821(b). Actual expenses for travel by common carrier "at the most economical rate reasonably available," taxi fares, and parking fees are also recoverable. \'a7 1821(c)(1) -(3). In addition, a "subsistence allowance" may be recovered "when an overnight stay is required at the place of attendance because such place is so far removed from the residence of such witness as to prohibit return thereto from day to day." \'a7 1821(d)(1). This allowance shall not "exceed the maximum per diem allowance prescribed by the Administrator of General Services, pursuant to section 5702(a) of title 5, for official travel in the area of attendance by employees [*21] of the Federal Government." \'a7 1821(d)(2). The per diem for travel to Tampa, Florida at the time of trial was $112 for lodging and $51 for meals and miscellaneous expenses, which is reduced to $38.25 for the first and last day of travel. See 41 C.F.R. \'a7 301-11.6 (per diem rates established by GSA available at http://www.gsa.gov/perdiem). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 HDR requests to recover witness fees and subsistence expenses for 17 days for Wooten, 18 days for Bromwell, 13 days for Kelley, and 6 days for Sandhagan. But as Tampa Bay Water observes, Bromwell only testified for three days, Wooten testified for two days, Kelley testified for one day, and Sandhagan testified for three days. However, it was certainly reasonable for these witnesses to be present in the courtroom, so that they could be consulted on the technical matters of this case. Indeed, Tampa Bay Water's own expert witnesses remained in the courtroom throughout trial. And Tampa Bay Water never requested that any of HDR's experts be excluded from the courtroom. Those witness fees and subsistence expenses are reasonable and will be awarded both as costs and under the parties' contract. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 HDR also requests the following lodging expenses: 32 nights for Wooten, 24 nights for Bromwell, 17 nights for Kelley, and 13 nights for Sandhagan. HDR contends that the additional nights were necessary so that the witnesses could stay in town over weekends, which was more cost-effective than multiple round-trip tickets. Such costs were indeed necessary and reasonable and will be awarded. However, HDR requests lodging expenses at a rate of $178.08 per night, including taxes, which exceeds the $112 per night rate allowed by the statute and regulations. Any amounts in excess of the allowed rate were not reasonable and will not be awarded as costs or under the parties' contract. Accordingly, HDR's request for witness travel expenses will be reduced by $5,682.88 \'a0.
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Tampa Bay Water objects that Wooten's $2,675.95 airfare was not supported by proper documentation. In a supplemental affidavit, Mason averred that the missing receipt for Wooten's travel was "found and filed herewith" (Dkt. 672-1, \'b6 16). However, the documentation was not provided, and therefore Wooten's airfare will not be awarded under the statute or the parties' contract. Tampa Bay Water also objects that Sandhagen's $4,910.50 airfare includes multiple flights, change fees, and other unexplained fees. Mason avers that the changes in Sandhagen's travel schedule were necessitated by the slow pace of trial. Notwithstanding, charges for multiple tickets and change fees will not be awarded under the statute or the parties' contract. Based on the documentation provided by Sandhagen, the most economical rate reasonably available for round-trip airfare between Atlanta to Tampa is $577.60. Accordingly, HDR's request for witness fees will be reduced by $7,008.85 . 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Copying and document production costs
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 HDR requests internal copying costs,[fn14] external copying costs, document production costs, and electronic discovery costs. Because "costs such as general copying... are clearly nonrecoverable," the prevailing party [*22] must demonstrate that the copies were "necessarily obtained for use in the case." Duckworth, 97 F.3d at 1399; \'a7 1920(4). "Copies attributable to discovery, copies of pleadings, correspondence, documents tendered to the opposing party, copies of exhibits, and documents prepared for the Court's consideration are recoverable," whereas "[c]opies obtained only for the convenience of counsel," such as "[e]xtra copies of filed papers, correspondence, and copies of cases" are not. Desisto College, Inc. v. Townof Howey-In-The-Hills, 718 F. Supp. 906, 913 (M.D. Fla., 1989), aff'd 914 F.2d 267 (11th Cir. 1990) (Table), disapproved on other grounds byW & O, Inc., 213 F.3d at 624. "[U]nspecified copying... which d[oes] not allow the court to determine whether the documents were necessarily obtained for use in the case" cannot be recovered. Gary Brown & Assocs., Inc. v.Ashdon, Inc., 268 Fed. Appx. 837, 846 (11th Cir. 2008); Cullens v. GeorgiaDept. of Transp., 29 F.3d 1489, 1494 (11th Cir. 1994). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 With respect to internal copying, HDR submitted a 314 page printout from Forisz & Dogali containing no more detail than "copy expense," "photocopy charge," or "color copy." These unspecified entries fail to provide the level of detail necessary to recover copying costs under \'a7 1920(4). Nor can they support an award under the parties' contract, as it is impossible to determine whether such copying costs were reasonably incurred. An additional five page printout by Sedgwick contains a small number of entries for "coding material" and "obj to subpoenas." These entries describe copies attributable to discovery and therefore will be awarded in the total amount of $62.85. The remaining items, which are either designated as "copies" or contain no description at all, cannot support an award under \'a7 1920(4) or the parties' contract. Accordingly, HDR's request for internal copying costs will be reduced by $70,574.40 . 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 As for external copying, HDR seeks costs for copies of documents produced by other parties. Tampa Bay Water does not object, and these costs they will be awarded. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 HDR also requests an award of approximately $3.1 million in electronic discovery costs. Tampa Bay Water argues that most of these costs relate to the collection, storage, formatting, coding and organization of electronically stored information ("ESI"), which cannot be taxed as costs. In addressing the taxation of electronic discovery charges under \'a7 1920(4), the Third Circuit persuasively reasoned that "only the conversion of native files to TIFF (the agreed-upon default format for production of ESI), and the scanning of documents to create digital duplicates are generally recognized as the taxable 'making copies of material.'" Race Tires Am., Inc.v. Hoosier Racing Tire Corp., 674 F.3d 158, 167 (3d Cir. 2012). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 But in this case, the precise scope of \'a7 1920(4) is immaterial because HDR is entitled to recover its reasonable ESI costs under the parties' contract. This was a lengthy, highly technical case which involved 17 million pages of documents. Under the circumstances, the electronic discovery costs incurred by HDR were certainly reasonable[fn15]and necessary in managing this complex, document-intensive case. While a large part of the $3.1 million in ESI costs is attributable to the storage and hosting [*23] of ESI, that amount was reasonable and necessary to the effective utilization of ESI in this case. Accordingly, no reductions will be made for the ESI costs incurred by HDR. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Supplemental evidence
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 After filing its motion, HDR submitted supplemental evidence on two separate occasions, reflecting additional work that had been performed in this matter and additional costs that HDR had incurred. Tampa Bay Water has not objected to any of the amounts set forth in the supplemental evidence. The additional work performed by HDR's attorneys and the additional expenses incurred were reasonable, necessary, and will be awarded, with some exceptions. With respect to the first supplement, Mr. Hill recommended reductions for document scans, local travel expenses, and post-trial meals. The Court agrees and will reduce the fees, costs, and litigation expenses requested in the first supplement by $347.46. With respect to the second supplement, Mr. Hill recommended a 20% reduction for mediation time and time spent vetting appellate counsel. The Court agrees that these items should not be passed on to Tampa Bay Water under the parties' contract and therefore will reduce the fees requested in the second supplement by $20,956.70 \'a0.
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Conclusion
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Accordingly, HDR's motions for attorneys' fees, expenses, and costs (Dkts. 653, 654, 655) are GRANTED in part, to the extent that HDR is awarded $9,249,219.85 in attorneys' fees and $10,898,186.22 in litigation expenses and taxable costs. The clerk is directed to enter judgment awarding HDR's attorneys' fees, costs, and expenses, as set forth above. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 DONE AND ORDERED. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn1] The contract provides, "In any litigation arising out of this Agreement or in any way related to the performance of the Work, the prevailing party shall be entitled to recover all costs and expenses incurred, including, without limitation, attorneys' and legal assistants' fees and costs incurred prior to trial, at trial, on any appeal, and in any bankruptcy proceedings." (Dkt. 644-1, Agreement for Professional Services, \'b6 21.4). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn2] This is the combined total of the amounts set forth in Mr. Hill's initial affidavit and supplemental affidavits (Dkts. 653-3, 658-3, 680-1). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn3] The parties stipulated that the hourly rates reflected in HDR's attorneys' billing statements are reasonable, with the modification that some associates' billing rates are limited to $185 per hour (Dkt. 653-1, \'b6 39). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn4] CDG settled early on in the case. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn5] HDR filed eight motions or briefs "directly relating to the settlement and its aftermath" (Dkt. 653-1, \'b6 24). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn6] Mr. Hill summarized the attempts made to resolve the case and Tampa Bay Water's determination to try it: 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Initially, Tampa Bay Water made a demand of $245 million to settle with all defendants. Attempts were made by HDR to settle, even before the lawsuit, but Tampa Bay Water was not interested. Prior to trial there were three mediations, all unsuccessful. It became clear Tampa Bay Water was going to force HDR to trial. The demands made before trial by Tampa Bay Water made it likely this case would go to trial. If there was any doubt about that likelihood, it was removed after Tampa Bay Water aborted the September settlement agreement. A "no holds barred" position by Tampa Bay Water caused intense preparation for the trial which began March 12." (Dkt. 653-3, p. 7). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn7] Mr. Hill found it significant that HDR and its insurers scrutinized every invoice for reasonableness and necessity, noting that HDR's insurers "were vitally interested in not incurring fees or expenses which were not reasonable" (Dkt. 653-3, p. 9). Mr. Hill explained that HDR's insurance limits were "burning," meaning that "all expenses including attorneys' fees by HDR or on behalf of HDR reduced the coverage available to HDR." ( Id.). Mr. Mason's affidavit outlines the extraordinary level of client/insurer scrutiny over the attorneys' billing invoices (Dkt. 653-1, \'b6\'b6 31, 32). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 While not determinative of reasonableness, this client/insurer oversight demonstrates a degree of control over fees and expenses which marshaled against unnecessary and unreasonable expenditures by HDR's counsel, and which no doubt complemented the exercise of billing judgment by the attorneys themselves. And it undercuts Tampa Bay Water's contention that the case was tried by HDR's attorneys with a "big firm mentality," whatever that is intended to imply. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn8] Mr. Vento suggests that HDR should not have performed a computer review of the massive volume of documents in this case and, instead, should have created "issue files" which were limited to documents that, on an initial review, were determined to be relevant. According to Mr. Vento, this is the manner in which Barnard's and CDG's attorneys handled the documents. Essentially, Mr. Vento's suggestion is that HDR was unreasonable in conducting a thorough review of the documents. But as noted, Barnard's and CDG's handling of the documents does not offer a fair comparison to HDR, and the Court has no quarrel with the manner in which HDR handled the 17 million pages of documents involved in this action. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn9] In its memorandum in opposition to HDR's motion for attorneys' fees, Tampa Bay Water includes a sub-title "Block Billing," but inexplicably fails to discuss the legal principles quoted therein and how they relate to HDR's fee claim (Dkt. 660, p. 8). Tampa Bay Water also includes a sub-title "Feesfor Litigating the Issue of Fees and Costs," but ultimately concedes that "an award of such fees is appropriate" (Dkt. 660, pp. 17-18). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn10] As noted, this across-the-board reduction has been applied to all fee entries, including redacted entries. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn11] Mr. Hill did not recommend an adjustment to Forisz and Dogali's time. The Court agrees that this time need not be reduced, as Mr. Woodward had significant trial responsibilities and his trial preparation appears to have been primarily focused on his individual responsibilities. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn12] The post-trial work is found in HDR's supplemental evidence (Dkt. 658) and second supplemental evidence (Dkt. 680). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn13] HDR seeks to recover nearly $6.7 million in expert witness fees. Mr. Harrison avers that Tampa Bay Water's expert witness fees were approximately $5 million, not including the work that Black & Veatch performed for this litigation. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn14] Although HDR refers to internal copying costs as "fees for printing," the invoices submitted by HDR reflect that the charges are more accurately categorized as copying costs. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn15] To put it in perspective, the total electronic discovery costs would equate to a charge of approximately $0.18 per page for a single copy of the 17 million pages of documents involved in this case. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb566\sa1133\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0          
\f0\fs42 General Information\

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 Judge(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 JAMES D. WHITTEMORE\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Related Docket(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 8:08-cv-02446 (M.D. Fla.);\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Topic(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Contracts; Civil Procedure\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Industries\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Water\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Date Filed\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 2012-11-02 00:00:00\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Parties\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 TAMPA BAY WATER, Plaintiff, vs. HDR ENGINEERING, Inc., Defendant.\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Case Type\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 SO\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Court\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 United States District Court for the Middle District of Florida\cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\li674\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\fs20 \cf0 Pagination \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 *
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 BL
\f1\fs24 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\li674\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Majority Opinion > 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 U.S. District Court, Southern District of Florida\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0  \uc0\u8232 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 PROCAPS S.A., Plaintiff, v. PATHEON INC., Defendant. 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0  \uc0\u8232 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 1:12-cv-24356-JG \
March 18, 2014 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 JONATHAN GOODMAN, Magistrate Judge. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb108\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 ORDER ON PATHEON'S MOTION FOR ADEQUATE SEARCH TERMS\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 In 1963-1969 and again in 1975, NBC, and then CBS, broadcast a television game show called "You Don't Say," which used the tagline, "[i]t's not what you say that counts, it's what you DON'T say." 1  More than a decade later, Pink Floyd stressed a similar message in "Sorrow," a song containing the lyric, "[a]nd silence that speaks so much louder than words." 2 \
In the discovery dispute underlying Defendant Patheon Inc.'s ("Patheon") motion to compel Plaintiff Procaps S.A. ("Procaps") to propose adequate search terms, Procaps' counsel followed this practice of silence by failing to respond to specific questions about Procaps' efforts to obtain search terms for a forensic analysis of its electronic media. This, in turn, caused Patheon to file the instant motion based on Procaps' counsel's alleged failure to obtain search term input from its client. [ECF Nos. 354; 355]. Although Procaps' counsel later advised that it had obtained search term input from its client, that information was not disclosed until after Patheon filed its motion. Likewise, Procaps' Court-ordered affidavit [ECF No. 391-1] outlines in considerable detail the very information which Patheon was seeking, but it was submitted after Patheon's motion was filed and after the Court required an affirmative response with specific information about the input for search terms. Accordingly, the Court grants Patheon's motion and also awards Patheon $3,750 in fees, as the party prevailing in a discovery dispute.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb108\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 I. BACKGROUND\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 A. The Meet and Confers Leading to Patheon's Motion\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 The Court granted Patheon's motion for a forensic analysis of Procaps' electronic media because, among other reasons, Procaps never implemented a formal litigation hold, and because it permitted its personnel to self-search for electronically stored information ("ESI") without ever seeing Patheon's discovery requests or without receiving a list of search terms from its counsel. [ECF No. 341]. The Court also required Procaps to implement a formal litigation hold and ordered the parties to agree to a preliminary list of proposed search terms. [ECF Nos. 324; 341].\
Procaps is headquartered in Colombia and its employees speak Spanish, although some employees also speak and write English. Procaps, however, generated an initial list of only eight proposed search terms, all in English. [ECF No. 355-1]. In that same February 24, 2014 email (containing the proposed search terms), a Procaps attorney advised Patheon's counsel that "we can confer with our clients as to appropriate Spanish translation" of English-language terms on which the attorneys agreed. [ Id. at p. 3].\
Patheon's counsel responded and noted that Procaps' eight search term proposal was "patently unreasonable" and stressed that "perhaps most troubling is that it doesn't appear these terms were discussed with Procaps' employees in order to determine what words and phrases they use." In that regard, [*2] Patheon's counsel emphasized that the absence of Spanish-language terms was problematic and criticized Procaps' proposal to translate the search terms after the parties agreed on English-language search terms. [ECF No. 355-1, p. 2]. This email ended with the following point: "[W]e remind and expect that you will confer with your client's employees to determine what words (in English and Spanish) they used when discussing the facts at issue in this case." [ Id. at p. 3].\
On March 4, 2014, a Patheon attorney sent an email to Procaps' lead trial counsel, stating that "this confirms that, during our call earlier today, Procaps does not agree that it has an obligation to come up with search terms with input from Procaps' custodians about the words and abbreviations they use, and that Procaps will not suggest any search terms other than the eight search terms it proposed on February 24." [ECF No. 355-2, pp. 3-4 (emphasis supplied)]. In a one-line email response, Procaps' lead trial attorney said only that "I do not believe your characterization of our position is accurate." [ECF No. 355-2, p. 3]. As is evident from the terse nature of the response, the email did not explain which part of the two-point email was supposedly inaccurate (or if both points were inaccurate). Confronted with this response, Patheon's counsel asked for clarification (i.e., "please explain what part is inaccurate"). [ECF No. 355-2, p. 3]. No clarification was forthcoming.\
The next morning, Patheon's attorney sent another email, reminding Procaps' lead counsel that he had not responded to the email. [ Id.]. He also flagged the specific questions again: "[d]oes Procaps agree that it has an obligation to come up with search terms with input from Procaps' custodians about the words and abbreviations they use?"; and "[w]ill Procaps suggest any search terms other than the eight search terms it proposed on February 24?" [ Id.]. Four minutes later, Patheon's counsel sent a follow-up email advising that Patheon would file a motion with the Court if Procaps' counsel did not agree with the two lingering issues.\
Less than an hour later, Patheon's counsel sent yet another email to Procaps' lead trial attorney to say that "this confirms that we just had a telephone call and you refused to tell me why you think my email was inaccurate and refused to answer these questions." [ECF No. 355-2, p. 2]. Procaps' lead attorney responded with a one-paragraph email (on March 5, 2014) that said, in pertinent part: (1) "we informed Patheon that if the parties were able to reach agreement on the English-language terms, we would confer with Procaps as to the appropriate Spanish translations of those terms, if any"; (2) "[w]e reiterate that we will confer with our client as to appropriate Spanish translations, if any, of the preliminary search terms to which Patheon and Procaps have agreed to date based on telephone conversations yesterday and again today"; and (3) "to the extent Patheon is now attempting to impose any greater obligation on Procaps than is specified in the Court's Order, we disagree." [ Id. at p. 2 (emphasis added)].\
Patheon filed its motion to compel the next day. It raised several [*3] issues concerning the Court's requirements for producing a search term list for the required forensic analysis, including the allegation that "Procaps is improperly relying solely on outside counsel to generate search terms." Patheon argued that this was evidenced "by several factors, such as the absence of Spanish terms" and "obvious terms such as the names of Patheon employees or Procaps customers with whom Procaps communicated." [ECF No. 355, p. 3 n. 3]. On this point, Patheon argued that the law "expressly prohibits Carlton Fields from creating search terms without input from Procaps' ESI custodians." [ Id. at pp. 3-4].\
In its opposition response memorandum, Procaps argued that Patheon had "no basis to make such accusations and they are inaccurate." [ECF No. 370, p. 4]. The accusations referenced in the memorandum are that Procaps' counsel failed to obtain input from its client's ESI custodians on the search terms and stuck to its position that its only obligation was to confer with its client about appropriate Spanish translations of the proposed terms after an agreement was reached.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb108\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 B. The Hearing\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 The Court held a multi-hour hearing on the motion (and other motions and disputes) on March 11, 2014. [ECF Nos. 380; 387]. At the hearing and in response to one of the Court's questions, Procaps' lead counsel agreed that the law requires him and his law firm to receive input from his client's ESI custodians in order to determine appropriate search words. [ECF No. 387, p. 78]. He also advised that Procaps' outside counsel did in fact obtain that input from the client's records custodians. [ Id.]. He did not pinpoint when the input was provided and did not expressly disclose whether it was before or after Patheon's motion was filed. But he did say that he (or his fellow attorneys) did obtain input from Procaps' ESI custodians in order to generate the February 24, 2014 eight-term search list. [ECF No. 387, p. 78]. The Court noted at the hearing that Procaps' counsel's position - that it had obtained input from the ESI custodians and that it never advised that it would contact its client only for translations of agreed upon terms - seemed inconsistent with their pre-motion emails.\
Procaps' counsel did not (and could not) challenge what he said (or did not say) in his emails. But he attempted to explain his communications (or non-communications) by arguing that Patheon has a history of sending emails which he believes incorrectly summarize telephone conversations. He further noted that he initially did not know whether his legal team members consulted with Procaps about search terms but soon starting receiving Patheon's emails asking him those questions and then he received the email purporting to "confirm" the conversation. [ECF No. 387, pp. 84-85]. Procaps' counsel argued that Patheon was seeking to engage in an "e-mail war," that email is being used "as a tool to gain an advantage" and that the Patheon-sent emails were an "ambush attempt" and that he was not going to "get trapped into this kind of tactic" and was not going to "engage in that war." [ Id. at pp. 88-89].\
Procaps' counsel then explained that [*4] he and his law firm colleagues have been in constant communication with the ESI custodians and the client's information technology personnel. He further noted that two attorneys had been in Colombia during the previous 10 days to verify the search terms and that they worked weekends to consult with their client on search terms. [ECF No. 387, p. 85].\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb108\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 C. Post-Hearing Developments\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Pursuant to the Court's order [ECF No. 384], Procaps filed a declaration from its lead trial counsel [ECF No. 391-1], outlining in significant detail the steps its attorneys took to obtain input from ESI custodians about proposed search terms. The affidavit explains that Procaps' attorneys spoke to 24 custodians about search terms (and also spoke with two former custodians about the location within Procaps of documents and ESI that are reasonably likely to contain relevant information). According to the affidavit, Procaps' attorneys spoke with most of the ESI custodians on March 6 or 7, 2014 about proposed search terms and also spoke with other custodians on March 13 and 14, 2014. 3 \
In other words, none of the input from Procaps' ESI custodians was obtained before the day Patheon filed its motion to compel (i.e., on March 6, 2013). From another perspective, as of March 5, 2014, when Procaps' lead counsel sent his email advising that translations would be obtained but remaining silent on the issue of obtaining actual search terms, Procaps' counsel had not yet obtained the search term input it later detailed in the post-hearing affidavit.\
The affidavit does not explain why lead counsel advised the Court in the March 11, 2014 telephone hearing that Procaps' counsel obtained search word input from its client before it submitted the February 24, 2014 list, yet explained in a later affidavit that counsel first discussed search term suggestions with its client on March 6, 2014. Patheon has filed a motion [ECF No. 398] for leave to file a sur-reply on this issue and Procaps' response is not yet due. [ECF No. 403]. The instant Order does not depend on the resolution of Patheon's motion.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb108\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 II. DISCUSSION\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 As noted, Procaps now agrees with the basic rule that outside counsel "must carefully craft the appropriate keywords, with input from the ESI's custodians as to the words and abbreviations they use." William A. Gross Constr. Assocs., Inc. v. Am. Mfrs. Mut. Ins. Co., 256 F.R.D. 134, 135-36 (S.D.N.Y. 2009); see also Moore v. Publicis Groupe SA, 287 F.R.D. 182, 193 (S.D.N.Y. 2012), adopted sub nom., Moore v. Publicis Groupe SA, No. 11 CIV. 1279 ALC AJP, [2012 BL 101971], 2012 WL 1446534 (S.D.N.Y. Apr. 26, 2012) (noting that "counsel for the producing party often is not sufficiently knowledgeable about their own client's custodians and business terminology."). It is unclear whether Procaps agreed with this rule before Patheon filed its motion to compel. Indeed, the email exchanges suggest that Procaps did not accept this principle before the motion was filed. It never in the pre-motion emails acknowledged the rule despite repeated requests, and it affirmatively objected to requirements it did not believe were encompassed by the Order on the forensic analysis - a somewhat nebulous reference which in context seems to relate to the Patheon-expressed notion that litigation counsel searching for ESI [*5] must obtain input from the client's employees.\
There are two problems with Procaps' concession that it must obtain employee input on search terms: (1) it was made only after Patheon filed its motion to compel; and (2) its pre-motion conduct, in the email exchanges and telephone conversations, communicated a different position - that its counsel was not going to obtain input from the client's ESI custodians, that the attorneys would later receive input only about mere translations. By refusing to say whether Procaps agreed with Patheon's view on the steps which Procaps' counsel needed to take in order to adequately obtain sufficient search terms, Procaps' counsel, in effect, sent the message that he disagreed.\
Moreover, when he finally sent a substantive email response on March 5, 2014, Procaps' lead counsel said more with his silence than with his actual response. Patheon asked him to confirm his position on certain points. By affirmatively mentioning agreement only on the translation issue and by noting an objection to certain unspecified points, Procaps' lead trial counsel responded in a way which would cause Patheon to reasonably conclude that Procaps' counsel had not obtained (and would not obtain) input from its client on search terms. Phrased differently, the silence (on the input-from-client-on-search-terms issue) was more significant than the few comments made about obtaining only translations.\
Given Procaps' post-hearing, unequivocal representation that its counsel did obtain substantive input from the ESI custodians, it seems as though most of Patheon's motion - requiring Procaps' counsel to obtain that search term input - is now moot. Nevertheless, to the extent that there is any doubt about whether this Court is imposing the requirement and to generate a ruling on which a fees award can be based, the Court grants Patheon's motion and requires Procaps to have its counsel obtain search word input from all the ESI custodians. The Court may enter further orders on the search term methodology and/or the specifics of the search term list after receiving additional information from Procaps about the search term protocol.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb108\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 III. ATTORNEY'S FEES\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 a. Patheon's Entitlement to an Award of Fees\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 As the party prevailing on this discovery motion, Patheon is entitled to attorney's fees. Indeed, the law requires a fees award unless an exception applies. The Court finds that none of the exceptions in Rule 37(a)(5)(A) apply.\
Procaps lead counsel's refusal to answer simple and direct questions, his silence on the specific issue when providing information on another related issue, and his vague objection to Patheon's purported efforts to demand additional obligations all generated the (apparently incorrect) impression that Procaps' counsel had not, and would not, obtain substantive input from his client on suggested search terms. Procaps' communications were unhelpful and cryptic. They caused Patheon to file a motion to compel.\
The "Sounds of Silence" may be a catchy title for a Simon and Garfunkel song and album, 4  but it is a problematic, [*6] risky, and usually unworkable approach when engaging in a conference designed to eliminate the need for a discovery motion. Had Procaps' counsel simply said, "we will ask our client's employees about their search term suggestions in the next day or two" or a similarly simple and direct message, then Patheon would not have reached the conclusion (logical as it was under the circumstances) that Procaps' counsel had not taken those steps and would not take those steps. 5 \
The mere fact that Procaps' counsel now says that they ultimately arranged for their client's ESI custodians to provide search word input does not immunize them from a fees award. As the Court has previously explained in this case, Rule 37(a)(5)(A) mandates a fees award, in the absence of an available exception, when the "disclosure or requested discovery is provided after the motion was filed." Rule 37(a)(5)(A) (emphasis added); see also [ECF No. 223, pp. 9-10].\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb108\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 B. The Amount of the Fees Award\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Patheon says it is seeking only $5,000 in fees and advises that this amount is significantly less than it has actually incurred - but that it is willing to accept this lower amount in order to eliminate additional litigation over the amount of fees. [ECF No. 355, p. 2, n. 2]. The Court has reviewed Patheon's request and is familiar with the amount of time spent on the issue at the hearing. Using the discounted hourly rates previously established [ECF No. 223], the Court finds that a $3,750 fees award is appropriate.\
This fees award must be paid by March 23, 2014.\
Because his non-responsive and/or vague email responses triggered this discovery dispute, Procaps' lead attorney shall personally be responsible for paying $1,000 of the fees award, and his law firm (the Carlton Fields law firm) shall be responsible for paying the remaining $2,750. The Court does not want to generate a mini-trial to further break down fees responsibility and therefore will not require the Carlton Fields firm to advise whether other attorneys are responsible in part for the circumstances generating Patheon's need to file a motion to compel. Nevertheless, the Court notes that other Carlton Fields attorneys were copied on the emails and sometimes generated their own emails on the forensic search term issues, which suggests that they too might bear some financial responsibility for the fees award. For example, one Carlton Fields attorney described on the firm's website as having "substantial experience managing complex e-discovery issues and large-scale identification, collection, review, and production" of ESI was directly involved in the pre-motion exchange of emails, both as an originator and as an attorney copied on emails. Carlton Fields is urged (though not required) to explore which other attorneys (besides lead trial counsel) caused, or helped cause, this discovery motion and to determine whether those other attorneys (rather than the firm itself) should pay all or some of the $2,750 fees award now allocated for law firm responsibility (or some of the $1,000 awarded against lead trial counsel).\
If either party wishes to object to [*7] either the ruling on entitlement to fees or the amount of fees, then it may file a motion within five days of entry of this Order. If one or more motions were to be filed, then the Court will schedule the objections raised in the motions for an evidentiary hearing and the two law firms will be required to produce their billing records for the time incurred in connection with the motion to compel. The time incurred in connection with the hearing will, of course, also be compensable in the fees award.\
If no motions raising objections to the fees award are filed, then the fees must be paid by the March 23, 2014 deadline. In addition, an affidavit confirming the payments and explaining who is paying the Carlton Fields portion of the award (i.e., the firm itself or other lawyers responsible for the motion to compel, and, if so, which attorneys) must be submitted to the Court's e-file inbox within three days of payment. Because at least one attorney - lead trial counsel - will be paying some of the fees award (and because others may also be paying a portion), the Court underscores the point flagged in the prior fees awards: this is a fee-shifting award, not a sanction. [See ECF No. 223, p. 39 n. 10].\
DONE AND ORDERED.
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0  \uc0\u8232 \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 1\
http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0057802 (last visited March 14, 2014).\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 2\
Sorrow, on A MOMENTARY LAPSE OF REASON (Columbia 1987).\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 3\
The affidavit notes that two custodians proposed actual search terms and that five expressed concerns that the initial search terms under discussion were too broad and would result in "false and irrelevant hits," and two custodians tried to provide limiting connectors to focus the hits to what Procaps deems to be relevant documents. The affidavit also listed the Spanish language translations for English search terms and provided far more than the initial eight search terms initially proposed by Procaps.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 4\
SOUNDS OF SILENCE (Columbia 1966).\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 5\
This assumes that Procaps understood the legal requirement to obtain employee input on ESI search terms and intended to obtain employee input when it failed to answer questions about its position in the pre-motion email exchanges. This may not be a correct assumption, however. Procaps has never advised the Court that it agreed with the rule before Patheon filed its motion to compel and its representations on when it actually first obtained employee input are inconsistent.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb566\sa1133\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0          
\f0\fs42 General Information\

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 Judge(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Jonathan Goodman\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Related Docket(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 1:12-cv-24356 (S.D. Fla.);\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Topic(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Damages & Remedies\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Industries\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Television\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Date Filed\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 2014-03-18 00:00:00\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Parties\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 PROCAPS S.A., Plaintiff, v. PATHEON INC., Defendant.\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Court\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 United States District Court for the Southern District of Florida\cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\li674\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\fs20 \cf0 Pagination \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 *
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 BL
\f1\fs24 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\li674\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Majority Opinion > 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA, MIAMI DIVISION\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0  \uc0\u8232 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 PROCAPS S.A., Plaintiff, v. PATHEON INC., Defendant. 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0  \uc0\u8232 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 CASE NO: 1:12-cv-24356-JG \
December 1, 2014, Filed December 1, 2014, Decided \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 For Special Master: John Moses Barkett, LEAD ATTORNEY, Shook Hardy & Bacon, Miami, FL.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 For Procaps S.A., a Colombian sociedad anonima, Plaintiff: Chris S. Coutroulis, Donald R. Schmidt, Mac Richard McCoy, LEAD ATTORNEYS, D Matthew Allen, Carlton Fields Jorden Burt, P.A., Tampa, FL; Natalie Jessica Carlos, LEAD ATTORNEY, Carlton Fields P.A., Miami, FL; Avi Robert Kaufman, Charles Woodward Throckmorton, V, Alan Rosenthal, Carlton Fields Jorden Burt, P.A., Miami, FL.\
For Patheon Inc., a Canadian corporation, Defendant: David A. Vogel, Robert T. Cahill, LEAD ATTORNEYS, PRO HAC VICE, Cooley, LLP, Reston, VA; Dee Bansal, Joshua M. Siegel, Marc Schildkraut, Michael J. Klisch, LEAD ATTORNEYS, PRO HAC VICE, Cooley, LLP, Washington, DC; Douglas P. Lobel, LEAD ATTORNEY, Cooley, LLP, Reston, VA; M. Howard Morse, LEAD ATTORNEY, Cooley, LLP, Washington, DC; Mary Kathryn Kelley, LEAD ATTORNEY, Cooley, LLP, San Diego, CA; Mazda K. Antia, Cooley, LLP, LEAD ATTORNEY, PRO HAC VICE, San Diego, CA; Robert Mark Brochin, LEAD ATTORNEY, Morgan Lewis & Bockius, Miami, FL; Meredith M. Snyder, PRO HAC VICE, Cooley, LLP, Washington, DC.
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 John M. Barkett, Esq.
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 John M. Barkett, Esq. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE SPECIAL MASTER TO DENY PROCAPS' MOTION FOR A FORENSIC EXAMINATION 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Plaintiff, Procaps S.A. (Procaps) moved to compel a forensic examination of information stored in electronic storage information systems by Defendant, Patheon Inc. (Patheon). DE 559. The motion is directed not just at Patheon's electronically stored information (ESI) but also that of Banner Pharmcaps, Inc. and affiliated companies (collectively, "Banner") (companies acquired by Patheon, as explained below) "that may contain information or data relevant to this case." DE 559, p. 1. Procaps also seeks its attorneys' fees and costs in bringing the motion. Id. In June 2014, Procaps had signaled to the Court that it would be filing this motion. Hence, when the Court referred to me for resolution pending issues associated with the Court's Orders requiring a forensic examination of Procaps' electronic storage media, DE 568 (July 14, 2014), the Court also referred Procaps' anticipated motion to me for this Report and Recommendation. Id. \
My Report and Recommendation follows. I first discuss the background allegations or facts to give a context to Procaps' motion. I then review the Court's Order granting Patheon's motion for a forensic examination of Procaps' electronic storage information systems, DE 341 (February 28, 2014), since Procaps believes that Patheon's conduct warrants issuance of a similar order. Next I discuss the positions of the parties as set forth in lengthy memoranda. After that I review in detail the case law relied upon by Procaps to justify the relief that it seeks and the case law relied upon by Patheon to justify its opposition to Procaps' motion. I then apply the applicable legal standards to the facts as presented by the parties. I conclude that Procaps has not made a sufficient showing to [*2] warrant a forensic examination of Patheon's electronic storage information systems.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Background 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Discovery-related motions must have a context anchored in the claims or defenses of the parties. Fed. R. Civ. P. 26(b)(1) . The following background information provides that context. The information comes from the Complaint, DE 1 (December 10, 2012) or the parties' filings in connection with their cross motions for summary judgment (DE 506 and DE 507, both dated May 19, 2014, are proposed summary judgment orders prepared by the parties) or the Court's Order granting in part and denying in part the parties' cross motions for summary judgment, DE 565 (July 30, 2014).\
In December 2012, Procaps filed this action for damages under the antitrust laws, Florida's Deceptive and Unfair Trade Practices Act (FDUPTA), and the Florida common law of unfair competition.\
Procaps and Patheon had entered into a seven-year "Collaboration Agreement" in January 2012 by which they would work together to sell "softgel" products in the United States. Procaps is in Columbia. It manufactures softgel capsules for pharmaceutical companies. Patheon is in the United States. It has commercial manufacturing and pharmaceutical development services relationships with the pharmaceutical industry in the United States and throughout other parts of the world. Procaps had a slight presence in the United States and wanted to expand it as well as increase its business in other parts of the world. Patheon had limited manufacturing capabilities in the United States and sought to take advantage of Procaps' significant manufacturing capabilities to increase its offerings to its pharmaceutical customers. The marriage appeared sensible enough to both companies that they agreed to contribute their unique skills to the collaboration and offer pharmaceutical customers branded softgel products. By May 2012, the collaborators were offering "P-Gels" \'97a branded softgel capsule development and manufacturing service\'97to pharmaceutical companies in the United States, Europe, and several other countries within the "Territory" covered by the Collaboration Agreement.\
A few months later, Patheon decided to buy Banner, whom Procaps refers to as its "fiercest competitor." DE 559, p. 1. The acquisition was made, Procaps says, after Procaps disclosed to Patheon confidential and proprietary information relating to soft gel manufacturing. Id. Patheon announced the acquisition in October 2012 following some period of time of negotiations. The purchase was completed in December 2012.\
Procaps was not happy about this decision. It sued on December 10, 2012, originally naming Banner as a defendant and including an injunction count to stop the acquisition or require Patheon to divest itself of Banner's softgel manufacturing capabilities and facilities to a third party within a six-month period as provided for in the Collaboration Agreement. The latter did not occur. Banner was later dropped as an independent party. Procaps never pursued an injunction.\
Irrespective of Rule 26(d)(1) , on [*3] December 14, 2012, Procaps also served Patheon and Banner with document requests covering 81 categories of documents. DE 559, p. 1, 7.\
Procaps' main claim against Patheon sounded not in breach of contract but in antitrust. The Collaboration Agreement required the collaborators, among other obligations, to allocate customers. Once Patheon bought Banner, Procaps alleged that Patheon became a competitor to Procaps. When two competitors agree to divide customers, that sounds like a contract in restraint of trade, which, depending upon a number of factors, can be a violation of Section 1 of the Sherman Act. And that's what Procaps alleged: that Patheon's decision to buy Banner converted a lawful Collaboration Agreement into a per se violation of the antitrust laws. Saying it could not participate in unlawful activity, Procaps alleged that it was deprived of the benefits of the Collaboration Agreement\'97i.e., profits from future sales\'97and therefore suffered damage.\
For its part, Patheon did not believe that Banner and Procaps were meaningful competitors because Banner did not actively pursue the business of softgel product development services or commercial manufacturing outsourcing, which was the focus of the Collaboration Agreement. Presumably consistent with this belief, Patheon initially proposed to include Banner's business in the Collaboration but that approach was ultimately rejected by Procaps. As noted earlier, the Collaboration Agreement contained a provision that gave Patheon six months to divest itself of assets. Unsurprisingly (having just bought Banner), Patheon retained the Banner assets but said it continued to look, and would continue to look, for opportunities for the companies under the Collaboration Agreement. Procaps, however, refused to move forward without a divestiture of the competing Banner assets.\
Because Procaps' refusal to perform under the Collaboration Agreement was not "cured," Patheon insisted that the Collaboration Agreement was thereby terminated and formally declared this to be the case in July 2013. Procaps, however, insisted that the Agreement was still in effect. As noted above, it felt that it could not take advantage of the Collaboration Agreement's provisions because it would be dividing markets with a competitor in violation of the antitrust laws. Thus, Procaps says, it lost out on potential profits from future sales that would have been made had the collaborators approached the marketplace as they had done in 2012 before the Banner acquisition, and originally planned to do in the years that followed.\
Procaps also argued that Patheon was liable under the Florida Deceptive Trade and Unfair Practices Act (FDUPTA) and under Florida's common law of unfair competition. Procaps was most concerned that it revealed confidential information to Patheon about its manufacturing operations only to later learn that Patheon was buying Procaps' competitor, Banner. For its part, Patheon insisted that it had kept from Banner any confidential information [*4] it learned from Procaps.\
In its Order addressing summary judgment motions filed by both parties, the Court decided that the case would not be allowed to proceed on the basis of a per se violation of the antitrust laws but instead would be tried on the basis of a rule of reason antitrust claim. DE 565, p. 3-4, 25-37.\
The Court granted summary judgment to Patheon on the FDUPTA claim for any recovery theories other than the practices represented by Procaps' claim under Section 1 of the Sherman Act. DE 565, p. 43-44.\
The Court later rejected Procaps' motion for reconsideration of this ruling. DE 603. It reiterated that Procaps failed to produce any evidence that Patheon had misused Procaps' confidential information or disclosed it to a third party. DE 603, p. 11. The Court refused to accept the theory that access to confidential information is equivalent to engagement in an "unfair act" under FDUPTA. Otherwise, the Court explained, a breach of a contract with a confidentiality clause in it would be converted into a FDUPTA claim, and the Florida Supreme Court has said that is not the purpose behind FDUPTA. DE 603, p. 12 (citing PNR, Inc. v. Beacon Prop. Mgmt., Inc., 842 So. 2d 773 , 777 , n.2 (Fla. 2003).\
However, the Court did allow one opening to Procaps. If it turned out that discovery from a forensic analysis of Patheon's electronically stored information was to be permitted, and such discovery produced "substantial and bona fide evidence that supports Procaps' FDUPTA claim (of actual misuse of confidential information)," then, the Court said, Procaps may file a renewed motion on the scope of its FDUPTA claim. DE 603, p. 16.\
The Court also granted Patheon's summary judgment motion on the unfair competition claim. DE 565, p. 44-51.\
Patheon then filed a "Motion for Judgment." DE 581. It argued that Procaps had conceded it was only pursuing a per se antitrust claim and, therefore, Procaps should not be permitted to pursue a rule-of-reason antitrust claim. The Court denied that motion. DE 607. It did require Procaps to respond to certain discovery that had not previously been answered because of reliance on a per se antitrust theory. After this discovery is completed, the Court also allowed Patheon, if it chose to do so, to file another summary judgment motion limited solely to the issue of whether Procaps has established a prima facie antitrust claim under a rule of reason analysis. DE 607, p. 3-4.\
The discovery deadline in this matter was March 10, 2014. DE 94, p. 5, DE 603, p. 2, 16. The Court's Order dated October 2, 2014, DE 603 pp. 17-20 , held that various discovery motions of the parties were untimely filed since the parties could not by stipulation extend deadlines set by local rule and the Court's Scheduling Order. The Court did provide for two exceptions pertinent to the referral to the Special Master:\
\pard\pardeftab720\li539\ri539\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 If (1) the discovery provided by Procaps to Patheon as part of the Court-ordered forensic analysis of Procaps' ESI, [or] (2) any similar discovery which might be provided in connection with Procaps' motion to compel a forensic analysis of Patheon's ESI, ..., yields any substantively significant evidence warranting [*5] further discovery, then the party or parties receiving the evidence may (after consulting with opposing counsel) file a motion for additional discovery, limited to issues arising out of the newly-provided evidence.\
DE 603, p. 20. The Court was quick to add it was not expressing a view on the outcome of its referral to the Special Master or whether it would accept any recommendation for further discovery should the Special Master recommend it.  Id. at 20, n.4.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 The Court's Order Granting Patheon's Motion for Forensic Examination \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Procaps argues that Patheon's conduct is comparable to the conduct that prompted the Court to grant Patheon's motion for a forensic examination. So before turning to Patheon's conduct, for comparative purposes, I set forth below the Court's findings underlying its Order Granting Defendant's Motion for a Forensic Analysis of Plaintiff's Electronic Media. DE 341 (February 28, 2014):\
\pard\pardeftab720\li539\ri539\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \'95 Procaps' counsel recognized the need for a litigation hold notice because it referenced one in its November 2012 engagement letter with Procaps. But it failed to realize that its client did not issue a litigation hold notice in response to the engagement letter. DE 341, p. 4.\
\'95 The action was filed in December 2012. The first formal litigation hold was not issued by Procaps until February 27, 2014, when the Court ordered that one be issued. DE 341, p. 1-2.\
\'95 Procaps' counsel did not travel to Colombia where Procaps is based to meet with Procaps' information technology team or other executives to "discuss how relevant or responsive" ESI would be located. DE 341, p. 2.\
\'95 Procaps' counsel did not retain "an ESI retrieval consultant to help Procaps implement a litigation hold or to search for relevant ESI and documents." DE 341, p. 2.\
\'95 Based on deposition testimony from Procaps' executives and employees, Procaps self-collected ESI and documents, and allowed some of its executives to use a single search term to collect emails. DE 341, p. 4.\
\'95 Illustratively, Procaps' Director of Business Development (Alvaro Franco), "the primary liaison with Patheon in the Collaboration Agreement" and "[p]erhaps the most important Procaps fact witness in this case," testified "that he was never given instructions on how to search for ESI and documents and decided for himself whether something was relevant"; that he "searched for emails containing only the term 'Patheon'"; and that the search protocol he followed was one he generated Case without assistance from counsel. DE 341, p. 4. Mr. Franco did not search for "emails using other search terms (such as 'Banner,' 'Collaboration Agreement,' 'softgels,' 'soft gels,' etc.) and did not do anything else to locate and collect responsive ESI and other documents." DE 341, p. 5.\
\'95 Many of Procaps' executives, including its Chief Executive Officer, "testified that they never saw Patheon's document requests."\
\'95 A Fed. R. Civ. P. 30(b)(6) witness for Procaps testified that he "did not know if Procaps had backup tapes or an automated deletion process and, if so, whether that process was suspended when litigation began." DE 341, p. 5.\
\'95 A separate Procaps executive "testified that his ESI and document [*6] collection focused only on emails to or from Patheon \'97 and did not include internal emails discussing Patheon or emails where he was copied but not directly addressed." DE 341, p. 5 (emphasis in original).\
\'95 Several Procaps' employees testified that they did not receive "instructions from counsel to retain relevant evidence." DE 341, p. 5.\
\'95 Procaps' counsel conceded that the "document and ESI search was inadequate." DE 341, p. 2.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Procaps argued to the Court that there was no showing that any documents had been deleted or destroyed. The Court responded by saying,\
\pard\pardeftab720\li539\ri539\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Even if true, this argument does not address the indisputable conclusion that the ESI and document searches were inadequate \'97 a scenario which strongly suggests that some (and perhaps even a significant amount of) responsive discovery from Procaps has not yet been located and mandates a comprehensive forensic search of Procaps' ESI and other sources of relevant documents.\
DE 341, p. 6.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Against this backdrop, I turn now to Procaps' arguments in support of its motion.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Procaps' Arguments \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Procaps summarized its arguments:\
\pard\pardeftab720\li539\ri539\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 1. Patheon failed to issue litigation hold notices to "all relevant custodians" until "as late as 7 months" after the date that Patheon "concedes it anticipated litigation" and "5 months after receiving Procaps first document requests." DE 559, Ex. 4. (DE 559-4 is Patheon's responses to Procaps Fifth Set of Interrogatories, which explains Patheon's ESI and document production process.)\
2. Patheon did not suspend deletion of backup tapes until "well after discovery commenced." DE 559, Ex. 4.\
3. Patheon's former President \'97 North American Operations, Peter Bigelow, was not asked to preserve relevant documents. DE 559, Ex. 5. (DE 559-5 is an unproofed "realtime" transcript of a deposition of Mr. Bigelow.) Procaps says that Mr. Bigelow is a "critical" witness for Patheon (citing DE 394 at 4; DE 459).\
4. Patheon did not engage an outside ESI vendor to collect relevant ESI. It self-collected them, Procaps argues. DE 559, p. 3 and Ex. 4. Referring to the Court's February 28 Order granting Patheon's Motion for a Forensic Examination (DE 341, p. 2), Procaps notes that Patheon criticized Procaps for not retaining an "ESI retrieval consultant."\
5. Patheon's collection of ESI consisted "only of asking certain custodians (timeframe and names unknown) to locate folders where potentially relevant documents could be stored, and then copying those folders or files themselves." DE 559, Ex. 4.\
6. Patheon did not run search terms on its electronic information systems, email servers, or backup tapes "before delivering documents to its counsel." DE 559, Ex. 4.\
7. No search terms were run on "Banner's systems, email servers, or backup tapes at any time." DE 559, Ex. 4.\
8. Patheon's counsel ran "only" 17 search terms, including derivatives, on documents it received from Patheon. These search terms did not include "basic relevant terms" such as "Banner" or "Collaboration Agreement." The search terms included "only" 9 Procaps' employee names. The search terms did not include the names of any Banner employees. DE 559, Ex. 4.\
9. Patheon produced 1% of the documents that were [*7] collected by Patheon. The production included "only 14 internal Banner emails." DE 418, p. 4.\
10. Based on a review of metadata, Patheon produced documents from "only 1 identifiable Banner custodian" and Patheon produced "no documents from 49 other Banner custodians identified by Patheon in its interrogatory answers." DE 559, p. 4.\
11. Patheon took "no action to preserve Banner's electronic databases and infrastructure as they had existed when the lawsuit was filed." DE 559, Ex. 6. (DE 559-6 is Patheon's "Supplemental Objections and Responses to Procaps Fifth Set of Interrogatories.")\
12. Patheon "did not search for and produce documents from every custodian." DE 559, Ex. 3. (DE 559-3 is an email from Mac McCoy, Procaps' counsel, to Mike Klisch, Patheon's counsel dated February 24, 2014.)\
13. In December 2013, a year after service of discovery requests, Patheon "admitted that Cooley's search terms did not pick up all relevant documents." DE 559, Exs. 2 and 3. Thirty days before the discovery deadline, "Patheon produced for the first time new documents, including relevant emails and notes of important meetings between Patheon and Procaps employees relating to the collaboration." Id. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Then relying on its Proposed Order on Patheon's Motion for Summary Judgment, DE 508-1, pp. 27-36, Procaps points out that ESI relating to Procaps' "confidential and proprietary information resides somewhere in Patheon or Banner's computer systems, yet it was not produced." DE 559, p. 5.\
Procaps explains that Patheon conceded in response to this Court's Order (DE 483) that there were "no written policies, procedures, guidelines or instructions between Patheon and Banner regarding the protection of Procaps' information." DE 559, p. 5.\
Procaps adds that Patheon never sent formal instructions to its employees to refrain from disclosing Procaps' confidential information to Banner employees. "It is presumptively clear that there is relevant information at Patheon, and/or exchanged with Banner, that remains hidden in, if not deleted from, their computer systems and ESI," Procaps writes. DE 559, p. 6-7.\
Procaps then elaborates on these arguments.\
Patheon issued its first litigation hold notice on December 22, 2012. DE 559, Ex. 4, p. 2. Procaps argues that this notice was at least two months late, since Patheon should have issued a litigation hold notice no later than October 22, 2012\'97the date by which the parties reasonably anticipated litigation, citing to DE 318, p. 1-2. Procaps added that Patheon's privilege log contained documents created between October and November 2012 that were withheld as work product, meaning that Patheon anticipated litigation in this time period. DE 559, Exs. 7-8. (DE 559-7 and 559-8 are excerpts from Patheon's privilege log.)\
In reaction to Procaps' misfeasance in this regard, Procaps cites Patheon's words (from Patheon's moving papers seeking a forensic examination of Procaps' electronic information storage systems, DE 318, p. 1-2) that a failure to issue a timely litigation hold created a "pervasive risk that ESI was lost" after October 22. Procaps also notes, by analogy, that its failure [*8] to issue a timely litigation hold was "one of the principal justifications" cited by the Court in ordering a forensic analysis of Procaps' ESI. (DE 341, p. 4). DE 559, p. 6.\
Procaps also argues that the breadth of the hold was limited. The December 22, 2012 notice was sent to "those employees" Patheon "believed could have non-duplicative documents or data." DE 559, Ex. 4, p. 2.\
Procaps did not have a copy of the initial notice and did not know who the recipients were and argued that Patheon's refusal to share this information "strongly suggests that many key custodians did not receive proper litigation holds until April/May 2013, if at all, well after Patheon had searched for and retrieved documents responsive to Procaps' document requests." DE 559, p. 6, n. 2.\
But Procaps believes that when Patheon re-issued the hold notice in April/May 2013, this time it went to the majority of Patheon's "approximately 160 custodians." Procaps concludes that during this delay of seven months between October 22, 2012 and April/May 2013 the following occurred:\
\pard\pardeftab720\li539\ri539\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Accordingly, when Patheon was searching for and retrieving documents responsive to Procaps' first document request, the majority of its custodians likely had not received a litigation hold notice. Without timely litigation hold notices, those custodians would have been deleting, transferring, exporting, or otherwise destroying relevant documents in the ordinary course.\
DE 559, p. 7.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Procaps does not cite to the discovery record to support this conclusion. Rather it cites to Nacco Materials Handling Group, Inc. v. Lilly Co., 278 F.R.D. 395 , 403 (W.D. Tenn. 2011) for the proposition that a party's failure to circulate a litigation hold to 153 employees was deficient and "'likely to result in the destruction of relevant evidence.'" DE 559, p. 7.\
Procaps repeats that Mr. Bigelow "testified that no one instructed him to preserve or not destroy documents or to search for and produce relevant information about this case." DE 559, p. 7 citing DE 559, Ex. 5.\
Citing DE 559, Exs. 4, 6 and DE 375-12 (DE 375-12 is a March 11, 2014 Declaration of Michael J. Klisch, counsel for Patheon), Procaps then says that Patheon's interrogatory answers and declarations failed to state when Patheon's litigation hold "procedures" were implemented and suggests that these hold procedures occurred after April/May 2013. DE 559, p. 7-8.\
Procaps also says that there is "no evidence that Banner issued a litigation hold notice to anyone, at any time, or implemented any litigation hold of its ESI before it was acquired by Patheon." DE 559, p. 8.\
Procaps then again cites Nacco, 278 F.R.D at 403 , for the proposition that the failure to issue a timely litigation hold warrants a full forensic examination of Patheon and Banner's ESI. DE 559, p. 8.\
Procaps also argues that Patheon's failure to use an outside ESI vendor and Cooley's "inadequate" search terms warrant a forensic analysis. Procaps first notes that Patheon and the Court criticized Procaps' counsel for using custodians to search for relevant documents instead of retaining an ESI consultant. DE 559, p. 8, citing DE 341, p. 2. It then says that Patheon similarly eschewed the [*9] use of an ESI consultant and also self-collected documents "with the help of individual custodians and IT personnel." DE 559, p. 8 and Ex. 4.\
As for search terms, as noted earlier, Procaps explains that Cooley ran "only" 17 search terms, including derivatives; excluded "Banner" or "Collaboration Agreement"; included "only" 9 Procaps employee names; and excluded any Banner employee names. DE 559, p. 8.\
Procaps contrasts the 17 terms used by Patheon with the more than 100 search terms proposed by Patheon to apply to Procaps' documents that were forensically, or otherwise, retrieved in response to the Court's February 28 Order (DE 341). It then points out that of the three million documents collected by Patheon, DE 559, Ex. 4, p. 21, only 35,000 documents, or about 1%, were produced. DE 559, p. 9.\
Then, Procaps points out, on February 17, 2014, "less than one month before the discovery deadline," Patheon produced internal e-mails and other documents responsive to Procaps' original discovery requests. Patheon apparently acknowledged that these documents "did not respond to Patheon's search terms used in the response to earlier" requests for production. DE 559, p. 9, Ex. 2. (DE 559-2 is a February 28, 2014 email to Natalie Carlos, Procaps' counsel, from Mary Kathryn Kelley, Patheon's counsel.) Patheon argued that, "Common sense dictates that other relevant documents exist that 'did not respond' to Patheon's deficient search terms." DE 559, p. 9.\
Procaps argued that Patheon did not preserve Banner ESI and failed to search Banner's systems, email servers, or backup tapes for relevant documents. DE 559, p. 10. It based this argument on Patheon's response to an interrogatory where, it says, Patheon failed to identify any Banner database that it searched. It notes that Patheon explained that Banner documents and ESI became integrated into Patheon's systems and concludes from this statement that Patheon "never preserved Banner's ESI." DE 559, p. 11.\
It further notes that the 17 search terms that Patheon used to identify responsive documents did not include the term "Banner" or the names or email addresses of Banner custodians. DE 559, p. 11.\
Finally, Procaps argues that Patheon should pay the cost of the forensic analysis it seeks, "including applicable special master fees and costs." It also seeks its attorneys' fees for bringing its motion. DE 559, p. 12.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Patheon's Response to Procaps' Motion \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Patheon's response has a very different view of the facts.\
With respect to the timing of issuance of litigation hold notices, Patheon says that it issued a litigation hold to key players and expanded the recipient list as new key players were identified. DE 568, p. 18. Thus there was nothing improper about expanding the list of recipients in April and May 2013, Patheon insisted.\
Patheon further notes that it does not have an automated deletion program and, thus, "does not automatically delete emails or files residing on any company server or hard drive as a matter of course." It also explained that it preserved all of its email and file server backup tapes for the period October 2012 through April 2013. DE 568, p. 19, DE [*10] 568-1, Para. 5. (DE 568-1, which is an August 14, 2014 Declaration of Michael J. Klisch, counsel for Patheon.)\
Patheon points out that its counsel met with Patheon's IT Department and collected more than three million documents to which it applied search terms. DE 568, p. 18.\
Patheon does not challenge the proposition that it had a duty to preserve that was triggered in October 2012. Instead, it says that for Procaps to argue that something was irretrievably lost between October 2012 and December 2012 when its first hold notice was issued is "rank speculation." DE 568, p. 19.\
Patheon further says that, in fact, it has preserved its email and file server backup tapes for the time period October 2012 through April 2013 so that it has adequately preserved "this ESI even if one ignores the litigation hold notices." DE 568, p. 19-20.\
With respect to Banner ESI, Patheon argues that its only obligation was to preserve Banner ESI that is relevant to the dispute, citing Point Blank Solutions, Inc. v. Toyobo Am. Inc., 2011 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 42239 , 2011 WL 1456029 (S.D. Fla. April 5, 2011). Patheon said it agreed to produce only portions of Banner's ESI and thus there is no factual basis to conclude that "Banner ESI was subject to sweeping preservation obligations." DE 568, p. 20.\
Patheon says it placed a litigation hold on "all Patheon employees who could have provided any information about Procaps to Banner" and "on literally dozens of former Banner employees." DE 568, p. 20-21. It said it preserved "all communications between Patheon and Banner personnel," asked all of the custodians interviewed "about the existence and location of responsive Banner ESI, "affirmatively sought to identify and collect responsive ESI from any Banner employee who had it," and "searched for and preserved those documents responsive to Procaps' Banner-related" requests for production. DE 568, p. 1-7, 21. And it adds that Procaps has not shown that any relevant Banner ESI was deleted. Id. \
Patheon also insists it did not allow employees to self-collect ESI. In contrast with the practices criticized in Jones v. Bremen High School District 228, 2010 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 51312 , 2010 WL 2106640 , *7 (N.D. Ill. May 25, 2010) and Cache La Poudre Feeds, LLC v. Land O'Lakes, Inc., 244 F.R.D. 614 , 630 (D. Colo. 2007) where counsel were not involved in the document collection process, it points out that counsel supervised and was "intimately involved in every facet of the collection process." DE 568, p. 7, 22.\
Citing to its responses to Procaps Fifth Set of Interrogatories attached to Procaps' motion for a forensic analysis (DE 559-4, p. 14-15), Patheon explained that after counsel interviewed Patheon employees, counsel worked with Patheon's IT Department and collected (1) all custodians' emails located on Patheon's email server and email archives; (2) computer file folders; (3) user-created files residing on custodians' computer hard drives; (4) file server directories; (5) shared server folders; (6) other external media such as flash drives; and (7) relevant hard copy files.\
With respect to Procaps' position on Mr. Bigelow, Patheon points out that he is a former employee who left Patheon in October 2011, three months before the Collaboration Agreement was signed. He had [*11] post-employment consultant work but it was limited and ended in February 2012. Patheon says it had no authority over him after this date and notes that Mr. Bigelow testified he was not involved in the final Collaboration Agreement and could not recall negotiating any of its terms, and he testified he had no relevant hard copy documents or ESI. DE 568, p. 23-24. Patheon also notes that Procaps did not seek documents or ESI from Mr. Bigelow and that it produced more than 300 emails and attachments sent to or from Mr. Bigelow. DE 568, p. 24.\
Patheon's response to the Procaps argument about the use of only 17 search terms was that, in fact, it ran 33 search terms after testing and sampling more than 50 search terms. Patheon said that the number 17 comes from Procaps treating similar terms as one. As an example, Patheon explained that Procaps treated "andres w/2 nitola" and "anitola@procaps.com.co" as one term, not two terms. DE 568, p. 24, n. 19. The latter would pick up any emails and the former would pick up any reference to the full name, Patheon explained.\
As to the argument about the failure to use "Banner," Patheon argued that if it had used the word "Banner," it would have captured every email anyone from Banner wrote, DE 568, p. 25 (presumably because the Banner email addresses had the word "Banner" in them). Thus, Patheon said, it was not comparably situated with Procaps, where the failure to use the word "Banner" in Procaps' employee searches was faulted by the Court. DE 341, p. 4. Patheon also explained that while it did not use "Collaboration Agreement," it did use "collab*" in several search strings. DE 568, p. 26.\
As for Banner employees, using their names would have captured all of their documents rather than responsive documents, Patheon argued. DE 568, p. 25. And as to names of the nine Procaps employees that were used, Patheon adds that Procaps does not identify other names that should have been used or why. Nor does Procaps explain, Patheon emphasizes, what categories of documents Procaps thinks are missing. Id. Finally, Patheon argues that it used the word "Procaps" in its search and that term would have picked up emails for any Procaps employees. Id. \
Patheon also rejects the notion that it has an obligation to search the records of every person who receives a hold notice, arguing that its only obligation is to interview employees "who were reasonably likely to have non-duplicative, responsive documents." DE 568, p. 26-27 (citing Point Blank Solutions, Inc. v. Toyobo America, Inc., 2011 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 42239 , 2011 WL 1456029 , *11 (S.D. Fla. April 5, 2011). While I could not find support in this page citation for this proposition, this statement begs the question since we do not know how many of the 150 litigation hold notice recipients had responsive documents. So Patheon adds another defense: Procaps has not identified any person whose ESI was not searched and who would likely be in a position to have relevant information. DE 568, p. 27.\
As to the fuss over the late production of 25 documents, Patheon says that five of these documents did not contain a search term and the fact that twenty documents were missed in its production is not [*12] inconsistent with its obligations. Patheon cites Reinsdorf v. Skechers U.S.A., Inc., 296 F.R.D. 604 , 615 (C.D. Cal. 2013), where the court, in denying a motion for reconsideration to reopen discovery, reminded the movant that Rule 34 searches must be reasonable, not perfect. Patheon adds, "Finding a few documents in the course of responding to new discovery or preparing witnesses for deposition is not unusual nor is it any indication that the search process was inadequate." DE 568, p. 27. Patheon also notes that five of the documents were hard copy notes that inadvertently had not been produced sooner; four documents were duplicates of other documents; and the remaining eleven documents were found in a search in response to Procaps' fourth document request. Citing Memry Corp. v. Kentucky Oil Tech., N.V., 2007 WL 832937 , *3-4 (N.D. Cal. March 19, 2007) where the court rejected a request for a forensic examination where, among other reasons, there were only two missing e-mails out of thousands of documents produced, Patheon says that late discovery of these documents does not justify a forensic analysis.\
In addressing Procaps' complaints about Patheon's handling of Banner documents, Patheon explains that there were numerous meet-and-confer sessions between May 2013 and June 2013 on this subject and Patheon expressly put limits on what it would produce from Banner files:\
\pard\pardeftab720\li539\ri539\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Patheon also objected to production of any Banner documents or ESI from outside the Field and Territory, as those terms are defined in the Collaboration. Patheon maintained this objection throughout the meet and confer process, during which it was addressed by the parties at length. Because Banner conducted very little business in the Field and Territory, this objection significantly limited the scope of Banner documents and ESI subject to production.\
Specifically with respect to Procaps' RFPs that called for production of Banner information, Patheon also objected to any broad-based document production and only agreed to produce documents "sufficient to show" the information sought by the RFP. This objection also significantly limited the scope of Banner documents and ESI subject to production.\
DE 568, p. 3. It says that Procaps never challenged these limitations before the Court and any attempt to do so now is untimely. DE 568, p. 3-4, 28-29.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Patheon further argues that by searching all of the email of all Patheon employees who reasonably could have communicated with Banner employees and by searching the email of the Banner executive who had substantive communications with Patheon before the acquisition, it engaged in a reasonable search. It says that Procaps never answers the question of what information was overlooked by Patheon's approach to Banner's documents. Patheon adds that the burden and expense of searching Banner's email and file servers and backup tapes are not justified since such a process would generate "largely irrelevant data." DE 568, p. 29-30.\
Patheon also takes issue with Procaps' argument that there was a flaw in the production process since Patheon produced only 35,000 [*13] documents out of three million documents that were collected. Patheon says that Procaps has not identified any categories of ESI that are missing. If it had, the response would have been a motion to compel, not a motion for a forensic analysis, it adds. DE 568, p. 30.\
Patheon also says it produced 700 emails and attachments that were sent to or from a person with a Banner email address so that it was wrong of Procaps to say that Patheon produced only 14 internal Banner emails. DE 568, p. 30.\
Patheon also explains that it produced documents from the files of eight Banner employees, not one, and that it collected documents from other Banner employees whose files turned out not to contain responsive information. DE 568, p. 31.\
It concludes its Banner document discussion by saying that there is no Banner category of documents and no Banner employee that Procaps can identify as associated with a failure to produce. It says again that if this were the case, it would have expected Procaps to file a motion to compel but suggests that this was not done because Procaps' position is based on speculation. DE 568, p. 31.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Procaps' Reply Memorandum \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Procaps' reply memorandum did not identify any documents missing from Patheon's production. Rather, it focused on the "likely" loss of ESI because of the timing of the issuance of a hold notice by Patheon. DE 585, p. 2 ("Most egregious is Patheon's failure to preserve (and likely spoliation of) Banner's relevant ESI" and "for at least two months prior to the December 2012 acquisition, Banner's employees, particularly its IT department, would have likely moved, deleted, purged, or otherwise modified its ESI...."); DE 585, p. 3 ("Every indication is that potentially relevant documents have been withheld, lost or destroyed"). Much of Procaps response is focused on the parties' exchanges over Patheon's limitations on the production of Banner ESI. DE 585, p. 4-6. Procaps also makes an argument-by-argument response to Patheon's characterization of Procaps' original arguments. DE 585, p. 12-26.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Supplemental Memoranda \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 I held a lengthy hearing on the Procaps' motion on October 6, 2014 and thereafter invited the parties to make supplementary filings by October 14, 2014 with any additional arguments they wished to make in light of the information learned during the hearing.\
Procaps' supplemental memorandum, DE 606, focused on the disclosure during the hearing that Patheon's December 2012 litigation hold notice was sent to six custodians (and two IT employees), and excluded Patheon's:\
\pard\pardeftab720\li539\ri539\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \'95 chief executive officer;\
\'95 vice president for corporate development;\
\'95 executive vice president for corporate development and strategy and general counsel;\
\'95 vice president for market intelligence and portfolio strategy;\
\'95 senior communications expert;\
\'95 chief human relations officer;\
\'95 vice president for business development for Europe and "Asia Pacific";\
\'95 European Account Executive;\
\'95 vice president for business development for North America;\
\'95 executive director of global science technology and pharmaceutical development services;\
\'95 associate director [*14] of "PDS Liquid Fill"; and\
\'95 business development manager.\
DE 606, p. 2-3. The last four of these individuals are persons to whom, Procaps says, it "exposed its Confidential Information, and whom Procaps trained on its new technologies, softgel formulation and development." DE 606, p 3. All of these individuals received the hold notice in April or May 2013, rather than December 2012.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Procaps also complained about the handling of "Banner ESI" arguing that Patheon had no backup storage media for the period between October 24, 2012, the date that Patheon anticipated litigation, and December 29, 2012 when Patheon collected a mirror image of all of its ESI. Procaps argues that: (1) Patheon does not know how far back in time emails contained on the imaged data go for a legacy Banner employee; (2) Patheon integrated emails from Banner's email system into Patheon's email system only for emails that existed as of the date of the integration; (3) Patheon collected and searched emails of only two Banner employees and did not run search terms on Banner databases or file servers but instead ran targeted searches for Banner ESI to respond to limited discovery requests; (4) Patheon produced some documents from the files of six Banner employees but did not search their emails; and (5) Patheon did not interview or collect documents or ESI from key Banner employees including Peter Beckers, the Chairman of Banner's Board of Directors, and Banner sales personnel, "including Hugh Press and Anthony Taylor who communicated with Patheon about Procaps' Collaboration Agreement and sales opportunities." DE 606, p. 2-4.\
At DE 606, p. 12-14, Procaps also set forth the "precise relief" it is seeking:\
\pard\pardeftab720\li539\ri539\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 (1) forensic imaging, running of expanded search terms, and an attempt to recover forensically any user-created files deleted between October 24, 2012 and December 29, 2012 on all "Sources" (defined, Procaps says, in DE 493, Para. 6) of Patheon and Banner ESI for the six non-IT custodians (listed at DE 606, p. 12-13) who received the December 2012 litigation hold;\
(2) forensic imaging and running of expanded search terms on all Sources of 29 "key" custodians (listed at DE 606, p. 13) who received the April/May 2013 litigation holds, "and an attempt to forensically recover any user-created files deleted between October 24, 2012 and the date on which each of them actually received a litigation hold"; and\
(3) forensic imaging of Patheon's December 2011, and December 29, 2012, and July 2013 backups or "snapshots" of ESI "in order to run the expanded search terms on legacy Banner email and file server information" for certain Banner custodians listed at DE 606, p. 13-14.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 For its additional briefing, DE 604, Patheon emphasizes again that it preserved its email and server data and Banner's email and server data. DE 604, p. 1. It argued that Procaps' position is, in essence, that Patheon should have searched the files of more Banner custodians and should have used more search terms. It says no authority exists to warrant a forensic examination of electronic information storage systems on these bases and concludes that Procaps' [*15] motion is, in fact, a motion to compel discovery, which is no longer timely. DE 604, p. 2-4. Patheon also defended the reasonableness of its document and ESI search, DE 604, p. 5-9, and the reasonableness of the scope of its initial litigation hold. DE 604, p. 9-10.\
With this summary of the parties' positions, I turn now to Procaps' characterizations of the legal standard that Procaps believes is applicable here.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Discussion of Applicable Legal Principles \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Cases Relied Upon by Procaps. Procaps cites quite a number of cases in support of its motion. In its initial memorandum, Procaps relied on Brocade Communications Systems, Inc. v. A10 Networks, [2012 BL 6188], 2012 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 2846 , 2012 WL 70428 , *2-3 (N.D. Cal. Jan. 9, 2012); Weatherford US L.P. v. Innis, [2011 BL 145680], 2011 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 59036 , 2011 WL 2174045 (D. N.D. June 2, 2011); Nacco Materials Handling Group, Inc. v. Lilly Co., 278 F.R.D. 395 , 406 (W.D. Tenn. 2011), and Balboa Threadworks, Inc. v. Stucky, 2006 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 29265 , 2006 WL 763668 (D. Kan. Mar. 2, 2006), for the proposition that courts have "frequently ordered forensic examinations of a defendant's ESI in misappropriation cases with less compelling facts than those here." DE 559, p. 5 (emphasis added).\
In its reply memorandum, Procaps' argued that to obtain a forensic analysis it must show "'discrepancies or inconsistencies in a response to a discovery request or the responding party's unwillingness or failure to produce relevant information.'" DE 585, p. 9, quoting White v. Graceland College Center for Professional Dev. & Lifelong Learning, Inc., 2009 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 22068 , 2009 WL 722056 , *7 (D. Kan. 2009). To justify this conclusion, the magistrate judge in White cited five cases: Koosharem Corp. v. Spec Personnel, LLC, 2008 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 108396 , 2008 WL 4458864 , at *2 (D.S.C. Sept.29, 2008); Ferron v. Search Cactus, L.L. C., 2008 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 34599 , 2008 WL 1902499 , at *2 (S.D.Ohio April 28, 2008); P.J. ex rel. Jensen v. Utah, 247 F.R.D. 664 , 672 (D.Utah 2007); Orrell v. Motorcarparts of Am., Inc., [2007 BL 164189], 2007 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 89524 , 2007 WL 4287750 , at *7 (W.D.N.C., Dec.5, 2007), and Ameriwood Indus., Inc. v. Liberman, 2006 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 93380 , 2006 WL 3825291 (E.D.Mo. Dec.27, 2006), as amended, 2007 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 98267 , 2007 WL 685623 (E.D.Mo. Feb.23, 2007). 2009 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 22068 , 2009 WL 722056 at *7, n.17. Procaps, in its initial motion, had already cited Balboa Threadworks and Weatherford but re-cited them in its reply memorandum, added Koosharem and Ameriwood, and then cited three more cases in support of its motion: Peskoff v. Faber, 240 F.R.D. 26 , 31 (D.D.C. 2007); Seven Seas Cruises S. De R.L. v. V. Ships Leisure SAM, [2011 BL 420708], 2011 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 19465 , 2011 WL 772855 , at *5 (S.D. Fla. February 19, 2011) (report and recommendation adopted, [2011 BL 420753], 2011 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 19559 , 2011 WL 772902 (S.D. Fla. February 28, 2011); and Wynmoor Community Council, Inc. v. QBE Insurance Corporation, 280 F.R.D. 681. 687 (S.D. Fla. Mar. 5, 2012).\
During the October 6 hearing, I asked counsel for Procaps to identify the "best case" in support of Procaps' position. DE 606, Exhibit 1, p. 84. In its Supplemental Memorandum, Procaps argued that it provided sufficient evidence that Patheon's executives actively deleted or discarded relevant ESI after October 24, 2014, as a direct result of Patheon's failure to issue a litigation hold by that date. I discuss this testimony later, but in support of the consequence of this statement, Procaps cited Nacco Materials Handling Gp., Inc. v. Lilly Co., 278 F.R.D.395, 406 (W.D. Tenn. 2011). It then cited Nacco five more times in its supplemental memorandum, having cited it three times in its initial memorandum in support of its motion. Procaps characterized Nacco's holding as follows:\
\pard\pardeftab720\li539\ri539\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 ordering forensic analysis because party's circulation of litigation hold letter to only 7 out of 160 employees, instead [*16] of issuing a companywide hold to all 'key employees,' was deficient and 'likely to result in the destruction of relevant evidence'.\
DE 606, p. 8. Since it was cited nine times by Procaps in two memoranda and was invoked in Procaps' supplemental memorandum in response to my request for Procaps' "best case," Nacco merits further analysis since it does not stand for the proposition for which Procaps cites it.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 In Nacco, the defendant, Lilly Co., was a former authorized dealer for Yale, a manufacturer of lift trucks. Yale operated a secure website solely for its authorized dealers to give them access to information for, among other things, "the service of Yale lift trucks, including the parts and manuals for performing maintenance and diagnosing performance problems, proprietary software, and pricing information and strategy." 278 F.R.D. at 397 (record citation omitted). Even though Lilly had been terminated as a Yale dealer, Lilly employees continued to access Yale's secure website through access information provided by a former Lilly employee, Wolfe. Wolfe had access information because he had become employed by KMH Systems, Inc., which was an authorized Yale dealer. Id . \
Yale discovered that Lilly employees had accessed the Yale website using Wolfe's credentials. Yale notified KMH. KMH investigated and confirmed that Wolfe's ID and password were communicated to Lilly. KMH then fired Wolfe and advised Yale and Lilly by letter of the results of its investigation.  Id. at 397-98 . After Lilly received the letter, Clark, Lilly's President, asked Lilly's IT Director, Robertson, to block all access to Yale's website from Lilly's computers. Robertson then had a firewall installed.  Id. at 398 .\
A month later, on February 25, 2011, Yale sued Lilly. On March 9, 2011, Yale also sent Lilly a letter demanding that Lilly preserve electronically stored information. Id . Clark then forwarded this "hold letter" to Robertson and six other employees. His transmittal email to Robertson read, "Frank, is there anything you need to do to our system to insure that information is not lost." Id . The hold letter was sent to a separate Lilly location once Lilly learned that an employee at this second location had also improperly accessed Yale's website. Then, in June or July 2011, Lilly sent a note to the entire company directing employees not to delete files.  Id. at 398-99 .\
There was no dispute about the improper access: in response to requests for admission, Lilly admitted that its employees had accessed the Yale website.  Id. at 399 . Hence, it was not surprising that, shortly after suit was filed and a venue transfer motion was granted, Yale's motion for expedited discovery was granted: the court ordered a computer forensics examination of Lilly's computers to determine which of them were used to access Yale's website. Id . \
Evidence of access was subsequently found on seventeen Lilly computers. The court then ordered Lilly to produce a Rule 30(b)(6) witness to answer questions about Lilly's access to Yale's website. Id . \
Lilly produced its President, Clark, who testified that seven employees of Lilly's 160 [*17] employees, had accessed Yale's website. Clark further testified that the only action that Lilly took to preserve evidence of access to the website was to transmit Yale's litigation hold demand letter in March 2011 to these seven employees.  Id. at 400 . He was otherwise unable to answer several questions that had been pre-submitted to Lilly for the deposition.  Id. at 401 .\
Yale filed a motion to "prevent further spoliation," to obtain its fees and costs incurred in conducting the Rule 30(b)(6) deposition, and to have Lilly pay the cost of the forensic examination of Lilly's computers previously ordered by the court as well as the cost of imaging and examining Lilly's remaining computers. With respect to the Rule 30(b)(6) claim, the court found that Lilly failed to comply with the court's Rule 30(b)(6) order:\
\pard\pardeftab720\li539\ri539\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Clark was not prepared to testify as to several topics. For example, Clark was unable to state with certainty the identity of persons to whom the KMH ID and password were disseminated or the portion of the website accessed, downloaded, viewed, copied, or forwarded by each employee who accessed the website. Clark had not spoken with each employee, who admittedly had accessed the website, to determine whether they had provided the KMH access information to any other Lilly employees or to determine what portion of the website each employee accessed, downloaded, copied, or disseminated. Nor had Lilly examined the computers of each employee who admittedly accessed the site to determine if any information from Yale's secure website had been downloaded, copied, or forwarded.\
Id. at 401 . It then awarded court reporter and transcript costs and attorneys' fees as a sanction against Lilly under Rule 37 because Lilly failed to produce a knowledgeable Rule 30(b)(6) witness, and ordered a new Rule 30(b)(6) deposition with a knowledgeable witness. Id . \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Acting under its inherent authority, the court then addressed Yale's demand for fees for the prior forensic examination and to have Lilly pay for imaging and examining Lilly's remaining computers. In this context, the court said it had to answer four questions: (1) when the duty to preserve arose, (2) what the scope of the duty to preserve consisted of, (3) whether the hold and search and collection efforts were sufficient, and, (4) if not, whether sanctions should be imposed on Lilly including payment for the costs of the forensic examinations and mirror imaging of its own computers.  Id. at 402 .\
The court first held that Lilly had a duty to preserve electronic evidence once the complaint was filed in February 2011.\
What was Lilly supposed to preserve? Given the allegations of the complaint, and Lilly's admissions concerning improper computer access, the court was very specific:\
\pard\pardeftab720\li539\ri539\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Given the allegations concerning computer access, which Lilly did not deny, Lilly's duty to preserve potentially relevant ESI was very broad. Here, Lilly had a duty to preserve any electronic evidence of access to Yale's site, such as Lilly's server logs or Internet history. In addition, Lilly had a duty to preserve any electronic data downloaded [*18] from Yale's secure dealer website onto any Lilly computers, plus hard copies of data downloaded from Yale's secure website which were in existence at the time Lilly was served with the complaint, as well as data obtained after being served with the complaint.\
Id. at 403 .\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 The court then turned to Lilly's efforts to preserve and collect this electronic data. The court first faulted Lilly for failing to take "immediate action" to preserve this electronic data, and then, upon receipt of the litigation hold letter, failing to issue a written company-wide litigation hold. The court then explained:\
\pard\pardeftab720\li539\ri539\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Instead, Clark simply circulated the litigation hold letter to seven Lilly employees out of Lilly's 160 employees without any additional instruction. The failure to issue a written litigation hold is "likely to result in the destruction of relevant evidence." [citing Pension Comm. of the Univ. of Montreal Pension Plan v. Banc of Am. Sec., LLC, 685 F. Supp. 2d 456 , 465 (S.D.N.Y .2010)]. These seven employees, however, were not even all the "key players," who had admittedly accessed Yale's secure dealer website. Clark did ask Robertson if there was anything Lilly needed to do to Lilly's computer system to make sure information was not lost, but there is no evidence that Robertson ever responded to Clark or took any action. Lilly did not take any steps to prevent emails from being deleted, to prevent data from being overwritten, or to identify and preserve backup tapes which might contain the only electronic evidence of access to Yale's secure dealer website.\
Id . \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 This quote contains the language cited by Procaps in its original moving papers and supplemental memorandum. The reference to Pension Committee is to the part of the opinion in which Judge Scheindlin explains that after her Zubulake decisions "the failure to issue a written litigation hold constitutes gross negligence because that failure is likely to result in the destruction of relevant evidence." 685 F. Supp. 2d at 465 (emphasis in original). This part of the opinion was later rejected by the Second Circuit in Chin et al. v. The Port Authority of New York & New Jersey, 685 F.3d 135 , 162 (2nd Cir. 2012) ("Howard Chin argues that the Port Authority's failure to even issue a litigation hold regarding the promotion folders at any point between 2001 and 2007 amounted to gross rather than simple, negligence. We reject the notion that a failure to issue a 'litigation hold' constitutes gross negligence per se. Contra [Pension Committee v. Banc of Am. Secs.]. Rather, we agree that 'the better approach is to consider [the failure to adopt good preservation practices] as one factor' in the determination of whether discovery sanctions should issue." (citation omitted)).\
And in Nacco itself, the court did not rest its ultimate decision on the failure to issue a litigation hold. Rather, it considered a host of failings:\
\pard\pardeftab720\li539\ri539\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Lilly took no steps, of which the court is aware, to collect evidence from the key players or to search key players' computers to see if ESI existed or had been deleted. It appears that Lilly left collection efforts to its employees to search their own computers with [*19] no supervision or oversight from management. Lilly did not follow up with its employees to determine what efforts were taken to preserve and collect relevant evidence, and Lilly failed to document any of its search and collection efforts. Indeed, it is not even clear who was in charge of the preservation, search, and collection efforts at Lilly. Although Lilly was probably not equipped to conduct computer searches itself, Lilly failed to retain a technical expert.\
In summary, after the duty to preserve was triggered, Lilly failed to timely issue an effective written litigation hold, to take appropriate steps to preserve any existing electronic records, to suspend or alter automatic delete features and routine overwriting features, and to timely and effectively collect ESI. Therefore, the court finds that Lilly breached its duty to preserve relevant evidence.\
Id. at 404 .\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Yet, the court's decision to order a forensic analysis still did not follow from this determination. What Yale was seeking was an order requiring Lilly to pay for a forensic examination of Lilly's computers that had already been undertaken plus the cost of mirror imaging and analyzing the 17 hard drives of computers that were used to access Yale's website, and the cost of mirror imaging Lilly's remaining (approximately 100) computers.  Id. at 404 .\
Lilly's response was that there was no proof of destruction of relevant evidence and, in any event, Yale's own server logs showed when access was made and that was the best evidence of unauthorized use of Yale's website. Id . \
Before deciding how to resolve the parties' differences, however, the court had to determine Lilly's culpability. It determined that, at a minimum, Lilly was negligent in its preservation efforts:\
\pard\pardeftab720\li539\ri539\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Here, within approximately two weeks after being served with Yale's complaint, Lilly instituted a very limited written litigation hold by forwarding Yale's preservation letter to seven employees, then later to two more. Despite sending the letter to ultimately nine employees, Lilly took no other affirmative steps to preserve electronic data. Lilly did not issue any directive to employees to alter delete functions in its email program, to preserve Internet logs, or to preclude overwriting on its computers and servers. In addition, Lilly failed to proceed to collect potentially relevant documents and ESI from key players. Based on these facts alone, the court finds at this time that Lilly's conduct was, at a minimum, negligent in discharging its discovery obligations.\
Id. at 405 (footnote omitted).\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Yale could not show that relevant evidence was, in fact, destroyed, however. That left the court with Lilly's admission that its employees accessed Yale's secure website, allowing the court to conclude:\
\pard\pardeftab720\li539\ri539\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 [I]t seems probable\'97even very likely\'97that some relevant ESI, such as Internet history or server logs that show Lilly's employees accessed Yale's secure dealer website, existed when Lilly's duty to preserve attached but may have been lost by Lilly's failure to copy data on its server or preserve back-up [*20] tapes. The potentially missing server logs or back-up tapes may have been the only source for that information.\
Id. at 405 .\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Saying that a court should impose the least harsh sanction that can provide an adequate remedy, the court observed that severe sanctions were not warranted "because Yale has not presented sufficient evidence of relevance and prejudice...."  Id. at 405 . But because of Lilly's negligence, and because the only way to determine if relevant evidence was lost or destroyed was a forensic examination, the court ordered Lilly to pay for the forensic examination that had already been conducted by Yale.  Id. at 406 .\
The court further ordered, at Lilly's expense, a forensic examination of the hard drives of computers of nine employees "who admittedly accessed" Yale's secure dealer website. If that analysis revealed "relevant information or destruction of relevant information," then the court said it would allow Yale to petition the court to conduct forensic analyses of the remaining mirror imaged hard drives. Id . \
The court rejected Yale's request to mirror image all of the remaining Lilly computers. Instead, because Lilly admitted that the computers in the parts department were used to access Yale's website, the court ordered the mirror imaging of the hard drives of these computers.  Id. at 406-07 . Yale was also able to show that Yale's diagnostic software was downloaded and such software would only be useful for Lilly's service department. So the hard drives of the service department computers were also ordered to be imaged. "As to the other departments, Yale has not established a sufficient connection to its claims, and the likelihood that relevant information would be revealed by mirror imaging is small. Yale's request is denied as to these computers."  Id. at 407 .\
The court then repeated why it was requiring Lilly to bear the costs of this work: "Lilly is required to bear these costs because its preservation and collection efforts were woefully inadequate. Parties must take their duty to preserve ESI seriously. In order to avoid sanctions, such as these, parties must cooperate and voluntarily preserve, search for, and collect ESI." Id . \
The court in Nacco did not, as Procaps characterizes the holding, order a forensic analysis because Lilly circulated a litigation hold letter to only 7 out of 160 employees. It ordered a forensic analysis initially in response to a motion for expedited discovery solely for the purpose of determining whether Lilly's computers were used to access a Yale computer server\'97a fact Lilly readily admitted\'97which resulted in a determination that 17 out of 35 computers were used to access Yale's server. Then, as a sanction, it ordered Lilly to pay for the costs of this work. It further ordered a forensic analysis of the computers of nine employees who admitted accessing Yale's server. Finally it ordered mirror images of computers in two departments where access to Yale's server admittedly occurred or had to have occurred because of diagnostic software that was found on Lilly's servers. And these [*21] requirements were imposed on Lilly because:\
\pard\pardeftab720\li539\ri539\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \'95 Lilly admitted that its employees accessed Yale's server.\
\'95 Knowing that improper access had occurred, Lilly did not issue a timely litigation hold to all key players once the complaint was served.\
\'95 Lilly took no steps to collect evidence from the key players or to search key players' computers to see if ESI existed or had been deleted.\
\'95 Lilly left collection efforts to its employees to search their own computers with no supervision or oversight from management.\
\'95 Lilly did not follow up with its employees to determine what efforts were taken to preserve and collect relevant evidence.\
\'95 Lilly failed to document any of its search and collection efforts.\
\'95 It was not clear who was in charge of the preservation, search, and collection efforts.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Nacco echoes the Court's February 28 Order and, as this discussion demonstrates, cannot be read to hold that a forensic examination was ordered because 153 out of 160 persons did not receive a hold notice.\
The other decisions cited by Procaps present fact patterns very different from the one that exists here and undermine Procaps' argument that forensic examinations have been ordered "in misappropriation cases with less compelling facts than those here." DE 559, p. 5.\
Brocade Communications Systems, Inc. v. A10 Networks, Inc., [2012 BL 6188], 2012 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 2846 , 2012 WL 70428 (N.D. Calif. Jan. 9, 2012) involved a number of claims, including trade secret misappropriation. At the Rule 30(b)(6) deposition of the defendant, A10's witness admitted that 196 of Brocade's source code files were on the hard drive of a laptop computer of an employee, Ron Szeto, when he left plaintiff's employment and joined defendant's employment. Mr. Szeto had represented the opposite: he said that when he left defendant's employment, he had not retained any information that related to plaintiff or its business. [2012 BL 6188], 2012 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 2846 , [WL] at *2. A10 had also claimed that Mr. Szeto did not know that the source code files were on his hard drive and that he never looked at, modified, or deleted them. A10 also admitted, however that Mr. Szeto's computer drive had been imaged, and that the source code files were transferred from the imaged drive to Mr. Szeto's "current computer hard drive at A10." Id . Based on these facts, the court ordered a forensic examination in connection with the trade secret misappropriation claim:\
\pard\pardeftab720\li539\ri539\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Thus, Brocade has shown that forensic imaging and analysis of the deleted files is relevant to at least Brocade's trade secret misappropriation and copyright claims, and to testing the veracity of A10's claims as to whether any of Brocade's source code files on Mr. Szeto's hard drives were accessed while A10 was developing the source code for the AX Series devices, or whether any of Brocade's source code files on Mr. Szeto's hard drives were ever deleted. It is unlikely that Brocade would be able to obtain this relevant information from other sources given A10's 30(b)(6) witness's apparent inability and/or unwillingness to provide this information. Thus, Brocade's need for the discovery outweighs A10's burden and cost of locating, retrieving, and producing the [*22] information.\
Id . \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Balboa Threadworks, Inc. v. Stucky, 2006 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 29265 , 2006 WL 763668 (D. Kan. March 24, 2006) did not involve a motion for forensic examination. The issue in this case was whether defendants\'97a husband and wife team\'97wrongfully copied digital embroidery designs and then sold at least one of the designs to a third party in violation of the copyright laws and the Lanham Act. 2006 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 29265 , [WL] at *1. The parties agreed that defendants' computers should be mirror imaged at plaintiff's expense; they could not agree on how many of them should be mirror imaged. 2006 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 29265 , [WL] at *2, n. 1, *4. The court allowed all of defendants' computers and related storage media to be imaged. But the court prohibited any searches of this media until the parties agreed on a search protocol. The court also suggested sequentially searching the imaged drives to determine whether computers that defendants said were not used in the embroidery business should still be searched. 2006 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 29265 , [WL] at *4. This case has no application to the facts here.\
Weatherford US L.P. v. Innis, [2011 BL 145680], 2011 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 59036 , 2011 WL 2174045 (D. N.D. June 2, 2011) involved a terminated employee, Innis, who returned to his place of employment on the evening of his termination on August 12, 2009, shortly before midnight, logged onto Weatherford's intranet site using his work computer, and downloaded a number of files on a thumb drive. Three weeks later, Innis formed a competing oil services company, Noble Casing, and shortly after he did that, Weatherford sued him claiming that the files he downloaded were unlawfully misappropriated, among other claims. [2011 BL 145680], 2011 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 59036 , [WL] at *1. In a deposition, Innis admitted that he downloaded the files but said he never opened the files. Id . Innis also produced the thumb drive. A forensic examination of the thumb drive by Weatherford's expert revealed that two files were accessed on August 19 (a week after the termination), that an Apple Mac computer was used to access files on the drive on August 24, and files could have been copied off the drive on September 25. Based on this report, Weatherford sought access to all computers and portable storage media used by Innis's employees. Innis objected leading ultimately to a motion to compel the production. [2011 BL 145680], 2011 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 59036 , [WL] at *1-2.\
The court granted the motion based on the specificity of Weatherford's claim, Innis's admissions, and the inconsistency between Innis's testimony and the expert's findings:\
\pard\pardeftab720\li539\ri539\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Here, Weatherford's claims are neither vague nor unsubstantiated. Weatherford claims that Innis transferred the Weatherford files that he had downloaded to a thumb drive to other computers and used the confidential information to get Noble Casings off the ground. Innis's acknowledgment that he downloaded Weatherford files to a thumb drive without permission is itself enough to provide a nexus between Weatherford's claims and its need for images of the defendants' computers. In addition, Weatherford has proffered the opinions of a forensic expert that the materials on the thumb drive have been accessed despite Innis's claims to the contrary.\
[2011 BL 145680], 2011 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 59036 , [WL] at *4.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 White v. Graceland College Center for Professional Dev. & Lifelong Learning, Inc., 2009 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 22068 , 2009 WL 722056 , *7 (D. Kan. 2009) involved [*23] a Family Medical Leave Act claim by a former employee against her employer. The parties had a dispute over the creation dates of certain emails and attachments that had been exchanged between plaintiff's former supervisors. Defendants had produced the documents in hard copy. Plaintiff sought the native version of the ESI to attempt to show that a decision to fire her was made earlier than reflected in the hard copy documents produced by defendants. The magistrate judge ordered the production and defendants complied with the order. 2009 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 22068 , [WL] at *1. Plaintiff then retained a computer expert who found discrepancies between the creation and sent dates of the emails and attachments in question but could not draw any other conclusions without more information about a particular email attachment entitled "CC Basic Form 06092004.doc." 2009 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 22068 , [WL] at *2. Defendants were unable to explain the discrepancies. 2009 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 22068 , [WL] at *8. Plaintiff then sought an order compelling defendants, in part, to produce mirror images of certain hard drives for a forensic examination, and to allow a computer expert to verify the accuracy of the system clocks of the computers used to create the email attachment. The court rejected the latter request and also refused to require production of a mirror image of the hard drives in question for a forensic analysis. Instead, the court ordered the parties to have their computer experts confer and inspect appropriate hard drives or computers "regarding the location of information pertaining to the creation or modification of the email attachment 'CC Basic Form 06092004.doc.'" 2009 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 22068 , [WL] at *8.\
In Koosharem Corp. v. Spec Personnel, LLC, 2008 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 108396 , 2008 WL 4458864 (D.S.C. Sept. 29, 2008), the district court had granted plaintiffs' motion to compel production of documents including emails sent or received on a home computer. Defendants had produced a number of emails but not a single one was an accurate copy of the original email because the dates and times on each email had been modified. In addition, emails were separated from their attachments, and the emails attributed to one individual did not have this individual's name as a recipient of the email. Making matters worse, a litigation hold notice was not issued by defendants' new employer and defendants themselves worked off of home computers for a month after leaving plaintiffs' employment and, it was alleged, they emailed confidential information from their former employer to their home computers shortly before they left to work for the new employer. 2008 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 108396 , [WL] at *1. Plaintiffs sought a forensic analysis of the home computers and, under these circumstances, the court agreed: "The only issue before this court is whether forensic analysis should be conducted on the subject computers because of the defendants' failure to produce documents and because of relevant electronic information stored on the computers. This court finds that such forensic analysis is appropriate in this case." 2008 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 108396 , [WL] at *2. The court further split the costs of this work equally between the parties. 2008 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 108396 , [WL] at *4.\
In Ferron v. Search Cactus, L.L.C., 2008 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 34599 , 2008 WL 1902499 (S.D. Ohio Apr. 28 [*24] , 2008), the key question was whether certain emails received by plaintiff, a lawyer, were solicited or unsolicited. If the latter, the lawyer would have a claim under an Ohio consumer sales practices law. Defendants argued that plaintiff's computer systems contained "the only available documentary evidence that can show the pathways taken by Plaintiff to solicit the emails or the absence of those pathways." They sought to forensically inspect plaintiff's computer systems:\
\pard\pardeftab720\li539\ri539\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 to ascertain whether Plaintiff's efforts with respect to receiving the emails and visiting the websites (that are at the heart of this action) constituted a consumer transaction under the OCSPA, or whether Plaintiff's opening of the emails and any attempts to obtain free merchandise were part of a business designed to profit from email litigation.\
2008 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 34599 , [WL] at *1. Plaintiff had not produced this information and apparently had made no efforts to preserve this information. Id . The parties apparently had also agreed that a forensic computer expert had to have access to plaintiff's computers to obtain the information. Id . The court ratified that agreement because plaintiff's computers "contain the only available documentary evidence of his visits to the websites in issue and such evidence has not otherwise been produced." 2008 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 34599 , [WL] at *2.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 P.J. ex rel. Jensen v. Utah, 247 F.R.D. 664 (D.Utah 2007) involved a claim by plaintiffs that defendant doctors had improperly referred plaintiffs to the Division of Children and Family Services and then made omissions and misrepresentations to a juvenile court, all in connection with a civil rights claim brought by the plaintiffs who had been arrested and charged with refusing to allow their child to undergo chemotherapy.  Id. at 669 . Defendants sought production of plaintiffs' home computer and "crashed hard drive," a request to which plaintiffs agreed. But the parties could not agree on a search protocol. Defendants then filed a motion to compel production of the computers. Defendants sought to discover research plaintiffs had conducted on their child's medical condition and also to show that plaintiffs had altered, deleted, or failed to timely produce certain emails. The magistrate judge rejected the latter demand because there was no support provided for the contention, but held that defendants were entitled to discover the Internet research conducted by plaintiffs on their child's medical condition since plaintiffs had produced only the printed copies of the research that they had conducted.  Id. at 672 .\
Orrell v. Motorcarparts of Am., Inc., [2007 BL 164189], 2007 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 89524 , 2007 WL 4287750 , at *7 (W.D.N.C., Dec. 5, 2007) resulted in a forensic examination\'97paid for by the requesting party\'97of a home computer where the producing party and her husband had given conflicting testimony about the information contained on the computer before it allegedly crashed and where the producing party had her laptop "wiped" using "Evidence Eliminator" software before she returned the laptop to the defendant, her former employer who had terminated her services.\
Ameriwood Indus., Inc. v. Liberman, 2006 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 93380 , 2006 WL 3825291 (E.[*25] D. Mo., Dec. 27, 2006) was another former employer versus former employee case involving, among other claims, misappropriation of trade secrets. Plaintiff filed a motion to compel seeking, among other things, a mirror image of computers used by defendants, including home computers. 2006 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 93380 , [WL] at *1-2. Defendants protested saying they had already disclosed relevant, responsive documents after searching through their electronically stored information. 2006 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 93380 , [WL] at *3. However, plaintiff filed with the court an email sent from the personal email account of one of the defendants to an employee of Samsung, one of plaintiff's customers. The email was not produced by Lieberman. Id . The failure to produce that email was enough evidence to persuade the court that something was amiss:\
\pard\pardeftab720\li539\ri539\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 In light of the Samsung email, the Court finds that other deleted or active versions of emails may yet exist on defendants' computers. Additionally, other data may provide answers to plaintiff's other pertinent inquires in the instant action, such as: what happened to the electronic files diverted from plaintiff to defendants' personal email accounts; where were the files sent; did defendants store, access or share the files on any portable media, when were the files last accessed; were the files altered; was any email downloaded or copied onto a machine; and did defendants make any effort to delete electronic files and/or "scrub" the computers at issue.\
Id . \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Despite the Samsung email, the court still required plaintiff to demonstrate good cause for plaintiff's forensic demand because the cost of imaging hard drives and recovering deleted information was so high. Id . The court found good cause in part because the home computers were alleged to have been used to secrete and distribute plaintiff's confidential information. 2006 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 93380 , [WL] at *5. However, the court ordered plaintiff to pay the costs of imaging and forensically examining defendants' computers and imposed other procedures to protect against disclosure of confidential or private information contained on the hard drives of the computers. 2006 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 93380 , [WL] at *5-6. Before the forensic examination, defendants erased information from the hard drives and the court granted a default judgment as a sanction after finding defendants' explanations for the erasure "rang[ed] from the improbable to the impossible." 2007 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 74886 , *18 (E.D. Mo. July 3, 2007).\
In Peskoff v. Faber, 240 F.R.D. 26 , 31 (D.D.C. 2007), Peskoff had testified about his persistent use of email to communicate with Faber. Faber's search for emails however did not result in the production of any emails for the period mid-2001 through mid-2003. There was no explanation for the gap. The magistrate judge ordered counsel to collaborate with the magistrate to obtain requests for proposals for bids from qualified computer forensic technicians to examine computers to determine whether there existed emails between Peskoff and Faber during this gap period. A bid for $33,000 was later accepted with the magistrate judge ordering the producing party to pay this amount because the information sought was relevant [*26] and not duplicative, the producing party had failed to preserve relevant backup tapes and suspend auto-delete tools, had failed to conduct searches previously suggested by the magistrate, and was unable to explain these failings. 251 F.R.D. 59 , 2008 WL 2649506 (D.D.C. 2008).\
Seven Seas Cruises S. De R.L. v. V. Ships Leisure SAM, [2011 BL 420708], 2011 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 19465 , 2011 WL 772855 (S.D. Fla. Feb. 19, 2011) involved contract and tort claims by cruise ship owners against cruise ship managers. In the course of proceedings, the magistrate judge granted a motion to compel production of electronically stored information. Specifically, the court ordered defendants to provide to plaintiffs an affidavit setting forth the following:\
\pard\pardeftab720\li539\ri539\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 the steps taken by Defendants to respond to Plaintiffs' ESI requests including: identifying which of Defendants' employees' laptops and computers had been searched; explaining why certain documents were apparently missing from Defendants' ESI production; and, specifying what search terms Defendants used in conducting ESI searches. The Order stated that if, based upon the affidavit the Plaintiffs believed that additional discovery was needed, the Plaintiffs could file a renewed motion to compel.\
[2011 BL 420708], 2011 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 19465 , [WL] at *1 (record citation omitted).\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 After entry of this order, plaintiffs returned to court because of gaps in defendants' production.\
\pard\pardeftab720\li539\ri539\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Specifically, Plaintiffs contend that Defendants only searched and produced the ESI for nine total employees and failed to search various other employees' computers who likely have information relevant to this matter. In addition, Plaintiffs assert that the Defendants failed to produce complete information for those employees whose ESI was previously searched and produced prior to the instant Motion being filed. In support of their claims, Plaintiffs submitted a detailed list of nineteen different employees/custodians and/or email addresses that were not searched by the Defendants, and which Plaintiffs claim likely have information relevant to this matter. In addition, Plaintiffs have identified specific time frames of missing ESI for those persons whose ESI had already been searched and turned over to Plaintiffs. By way of example, Plaintiffs point to the Defendants' production of Mr. Richard Evenhand's ESI, and assert that ESI is missing from Mr. Evenhand's inbox prior to June 2008, and after May 2009; and from his Outbox prior to May 2008 and after May 2009. Plaintiffs make similar claims for three other custodians, Antonio Favuzzi, Lorenzo Malvarosa and Andrea Zito.\
[2011 BL 420708], 2011 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 19465 , [WL] at *2 (record citations and footnote omitted).\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 In its analysis of these contentions, the court lamented the failure of counsel to discuss issues in dispute early in the litigation under Rule 26(f) . The court then explained that defendants' searches for electronically stored information were "wholly inadequate," but it was also "less certain" that defendants failed to produce any information that was not already in the possession of plaintiffs or that was necessary for plaintiffs to properly prosecute their claims.\
\pard\pardeftab720\li539\ri539\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 When the undersigned questioned counsel for [*27] the Plaintiffs at the hearing whether the unproduced ESI was likely to produce materials not already in Plaintiffs' custody, Counsel responded that because there was uncertainty as to what the new ESI searches might yield, that he was unable to make that determination. However, Counsel again stressed that the continual failure of the Defendants to conduct proper ESI searches to this point undermined the Plaintiffs' faith in their ability to conduct proper searches now. Thus, the potential prejudice to Plaintiffs in this regard is purely speculative at this point.\
[2011 BL 420708], 2011 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 19465 , [WL] at *4.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Nonetheless, the court concluded that once the January 19 order was entered, defendants should have obtained e-discovery consulting assistance since they were otherwise not familiar with searching for and producing electronically stored information and, therefore, defendants' failure to complete a "thorough and accurate" search for such information hindered plaintiffs' ability to "fully and timely respond" to defendants' motion for summary judgment. Id . \
As a result the court ordered defendants to retain a third-party vendor to conduct searches of electronically stored information of certain custodians and to "re-search" certain electronic information that had been recently produced by defendants. The court denied a request to use this vendor to re-search all of the electronically stored information produced prior to plaintiff's filing of its motion to compel because of a prior finding by the court that prior search efforts were "reasonable under the circumstances of this case" and the "cost of utilizing more intensive search methods outweighs the potential benefit." [2011 BL 420708], 2011 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 19465 , [WL] at *5, n. 5.\
Wynmoor Community Council, Inc. v. QBE Insurance Corporation, 280 F.R.D. 681 (S.D. Fla. Mar. 5, 2012) is another case cited by Procaps that bears no resemblance to this matter. Plaintiffs filed suit on October 22, 2010 to recover insurance monies for losses incurred in 2005 by damage from Hurricane Wilma. Defendant's second request for production sought data from electronic media. Plaintiffs failed to respond to this request. A motion to compel was filed. On October 28, 2011, plaintiffs said they were "diligently working on the electronic material" and sought more time to respond. Defendant later learned from plaintiffs' chief information officer (Mr. Holthausen) that as of February 1, 2012, at least, he had made no effort to retrieve electronically stored information from plaintiffs' computers.  Id. at 686 . Plaintiffs finally responded to the motion to compel and the request for production at the same time, on January 11, 2012, considerably after the 30 days allowed by Rule 34 to make a response. Plaintiffs' response to the second request for production also consisted of blanket objections to every request including an objection that the second request seeking electronic copies mimicked a first request for production to which plaintiffs said they had already responded with hard copy documents, albeit also after the 30 days required by Rule 34 . Id . \
Because the response [*28] to the second request was untimely served, the court held that plaintiffs had waived their objections to the second request. Id . Even if the objections had been timely filed, the court explained that plaintiffs did not provide evidence in support of their objections.\
\pard\pardeftab720\li539\ri539\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 The Plaintiffs are seeking damages arising to their properties from the Defendant's alleged breach of an insurance contract. They are forty-six condominium associations whose combined losses could be substantial. Mr. Holthausen testified that not all of Plaintiffs' ESI would necessarily be found in hard copy format. Additionally, Plaintiffs have no policy in place for generating hard copies of emails between employees, or any e-mail policy whatsoever. Further, in light of the evidence of an unusually large spate of document shredding, some of which may have been unauthorized by Plaintiffs' CFO, there is at least the possibility that hard copy evidence germane to this litigation may have been destroyed that would not otherwise be available to the Defendant absent access to ESI stored in Plaintiffs' computer systems. For example, ESI relating to work orders pre-dating Hurricane Wilma could prove relevant to the condition of Plaintiffs' properties prior to the storm. Despite Keith Arnold's testimony that he would never authorize the destruction of maintenance work orders, Defendant alleges that very few pre-Hurricane Wilma work orders have been produced in hard copy. Therefore, responsive ESI stored on Plaintiffs' computers would not necessarily be duplicative of the hard copy discovery the Plaintiffs have already provided in this case. Finally, Plaintiffs have evidently made no efforts to identify ESI, deleted or otherwise, responsive to Defendant's request for production although, according to the Plaintiffs' CIO, they presently lack the capability to undertake a search of their computer system for responsive ESI, this does not relieve them of their discovery obligation.\
Id . \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Given this record, defendant sought to create forensic images of plaintiffs' electronic storage media. Defendant argued that plaintiffs had not produced any electronically stored information and that a forensic examination would produce a mirror image of each computer's hard drive. The court explained that in evaluating a request for a forensic analysis, the court "should consider 'whether the responding party has withheld requested information, whether the responding party is unable or unwilling to search for the requested information, and the extent to which the responding party has complied with discovery requests.'"  Id. at 687 quoting John B. v. Goetz, 531 F.3d 448 , 460 (6th Cir. 2008).\
As for the work orders that were supposedly kept in electronic format, plaintiffs said that the drive containing their pre-Wilma maintenance work order had crashed during the hurricane, "and therefore, there are no work orders in electronic format predating the storm in its computer system." Id. at 687 . Plaintiffs' chief information officer said the data were unrecoverable, but also conceded [*29] that the recovery of this data was not a high priority and that he was not an expert in computer forensics. Id . Plaintiffs also claimed that only a few of its employees had work-related email accounts and there was no policy on saving emails on plaintiffs' servers. Under these circumstances, the court held that the forensic examination was warranted:\
\pard\pardeftab720\li539\ri539\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 It would appear that Plaintiffs are either unwilling or unable to conduct a search of their computer systems for documents responsive to Defendant's discovery requests. In light of the foregoing, the Court believes that a forensic examination of Plaintiffs' computers is warranted. Although Mr. Holthausen is of the opinion that the work orders in electronic format pre-dating Hurricane Wilma are unrecoverable, he is not a forensic expert by his own admission. Furthermore, there may be other documents contained on Plaintiffs' computer system that are responsive to Defendant's second request for production. There is no way to know for sure because according to Mr. Holthausen, he was unaware of this lawsuit until a few months ago and he has not made any effort to retrieve ESI in response to Defendant's discovery requests. The Plaintiffs' properties are extensive and the potential damages in this case considerable. Defendant is entitled to employ the discovery process to assist in preparing its defense.\
Id. at 687 (citation omitted).\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Cases Relied Upon by Patheon. Before turning to the application of the principles set forth in the cases relied upon by Procaps, I discuss the case law advanced by Patheon in support of its view that the facts here will not support the ordering of a forensic examination of its ESI storage systems.\
In an Eleventh Circuit decision, In re Ford Motor Company, 345 F.3d 1315 (11th Cir. 2003), the district court, without a hearing and before Ford had a chance to respond, granted plaintiff's (Russell's) motion to compel direct access to two Ford databases to conduct searches for claims related to the unlatching of a seatbelt buckle.  Id. at 1316 . Accepting Ford's writ of mandamus, the Court of Appeals reversed because of a failure by Russell to show "some non-compliance" with the discovery rules:\
\pard\pardeftab720\li539\ri539\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 While some kind of direct access might be permissible in certain cases, this case has not been shown to be one of those cases. Russell is unentitled to this kind of discovery without\'97at the outset\'97a factual finding of some non-compliance with discovery rules by Ford. By granting the sweeping order in this case, especially without such a finding, the district court clearly abused its discretion.\
Id. at 1317 .\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Powers v. Thomas M. Cooley Law School, 2006 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 67706 , 2006 WL 2711512 (W.D. Mich. September 21, 2006) involved, in part, a plaintiff's claim that the law school had not complied with a court order to perform a thorough computer search for "work orders" that were in issue [2006 BL 100203], . 2006 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 67706 , [WL] at *2. After this claim was shown to be incorrect at a hearing, plaintiff's counsel sua sponte sought to conduct a forensic search of the law school's computer systems. Plaintiff wanted to attempt to extract certain work orders from a prior software system [*30] which the law school did not attempt to search because it would not be reasonably practicable to do so for the short period of time that the systems in question had overlapped. Id . After the court learned that the law school had produced quite a number of hard copy work orders from this prior system during this overlap period, the court rejected the request. Plaintiff then moved for reconsideration. Relying on In re Ford, the court denied the motion:\
\pard\pardeftab720\li539\ri539\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 The discovery process is designed to be extrajudicial, and relies upon the responding party to search his records to produce the requested data. In the absence of a strong showing that the responding party has somehow defaulted in this obligation, the court should not resort to extreme, expensive, or extraordinary means to guarantee compliance. Forensic inspection of computer hard drives is an expensive process, and adds to the burden of litigation for both parties, as an examination of a hard drive by an expert automatically triggers the retention of an expert by the responding party for the same purpose. Furthermore, examination of a hard drive inevitably results in the production of massive amounts of irrelevant, and perhaps privileged, information. ... This court is therefore loathe to sanction intrusive examination of an opponent's computer as a matter of course, or on the mere suspicion that the opponent may be withholding discoverable information. Such conduct is always a possibility in any case, but the courts have not allowed the requesting party to intrude upon the premises of the responding party just to address the bare possibility of discovery misconduct.\
2006 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 67706 , [WL] at *5 (citations omitted).\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Patheon also relies on two other cases that have invoked In re Ford to reject requests for forensic examinations. In Mirbeau of Geneva Lake LLC v. City of Lake Geneva, 2009 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 101104 , 2009 WL 3347101 , at *1 (E.D. Wis. October 15, 2009), the court, after earlier explaining that "[o]nly if the moving party can actually prove that the responding party has concealed information or lacks the expertise necessary to search and retrieve all relevant data, including metadata or residual data, is it proper for the moving party to initiate the searches of the other party's ESI," 2009 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 101104 , [WL] at *1, denied a motion to compel defendant to produce computers for a forensic analysis because the plaintiff failed to demonstrate why "a more rigorous discovery process, with extensive forensics analysis of the computers by the plaintiffs, is needed in this case." 2009 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 101104 , [WL] at 2.\
In Daimler Truck N. Am. LLC v. Younessi, 2008 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 86022 , 2008 WL 2519845 , at *3 (W.D. Wash. June 20, 2008), defendant left plaintiff's employment and went to work for a competitor, Cascadia, a non-party. Daimler wanted to search Cascadia's computers for communications between defendant and Cascadia's owner, and between Cascadia's owner and other of Daimler's employees. The court agreed with Daimler that the information sought was highly relevant but because Cascadia was cooperating with Daimler, was a nonparty, and was Daimler's competitor, it refused to allow Daimler to conduct the analysis:\
\pard\pardeftab720\li539\ri539\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Here, Daimler also requests [*31] to copy Cascadia's hard drives, a process which might reveal not just privileged, but also trade secret information. Having Cascadia search its own computers is an appropriate compromise here because of the unique status of Daimler as a direct competitor and of Cascadia as a nonparty to the underlying suit. The elaborate copying which took place in [Playboy Enterprises, Inc. v. Welles, 60 F.Supp.2d 1050 (S.D. Cal. 1999)] is not necessary because there are no allegations of documents being destroyed and Cascadia has shown that it is responsive and willing to cooperate with Daimler's reasonable requests.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Patheon also invokes Memry Corp. v. Kentucky Oil Tech., N.V., 2007 WL 832937 , (N.D. Cal. March 19, 2007). This decision involved a claim for a forensic inspection sought by a requesting party, STC, who argued that a producing party, KOT, failed to produce "numerous responsive documents." Id . at *3. The magistrate judge explained that "a mere desire to check" on another party's production is not a "good enough reason" to allow the inspection. In addition, STC was unable to demonstrate sufficient flaws in KOT's production to warrant a forensic analysis: "STC can only point to two missing emails out of thousands of documents produced in this discovery-intensive case. While KOT's document production may not have been absolutely perfect, the flaws do not rise to the level of necessitating production of hard drives." Id . at *4.\
Memry was cited in Downs v. Va. Health Sys., 2014 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 74415 (W.D. Va. June 2, 2014). In this case, a request to image and examine home computers of a plaintiff was rejected where there was no proof of fault by the plaintiff in complying with her discovery obligations; significant confidentiality and privacy issues were raised given that the end of the relevant time period was three years earlier; no duty to preserve was applicable to the home computers; the benefit of the request was outweighed by the burden and expense associated with it; and on the "current record," the defendants had "failed to justify a broad, and frankly drastic, forensic computer examination of the plaintiff's two family computers." Id . at *9.\
In reaching these conclusions, the district court summarized the case law above:\
\pard\pardeftab720\li539\ri539\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 [F]ederal courts "have been cautious in requiring the mirror imaging of computers where the request is extremely broad in nature and the connection between the computers and the claims in the lawsuit are unduly vague or unsubstantiated in nature." John B. v Goetz, 531 F.3d 448 , 459-60 (6th Cir. 2008) (quoting Balboa Threadworks, Inc. v. Stucky, 2006 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 29265 , *9 (D. Kan. Mar. 24, 2006) (citations omitted). Likewise, it is not surprising that "mere skepticism that an opposing party has not produced all relevant information is not sufficient to warrant drastic electronic discovery measures." John B., 531 F.3d at 460 (citing McCurdy Group, LLC v. Am. Biomedical Group, Inc., 9 Fed. Appx. 822 , 831 (10th Cir. 2001). '"[A] mere desire to check that the opposition has been forthright in its discovery responses is not a good enough reason' for a court order compelling an exhaustive computer forensic examination." Nola Spice Designs, LLC v. Haydel Enters., 2013 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 108872 , *7 (E.D. La. Aug. 2, 2013) (quoting Memry [*32] Corp. v. Kentucky Oil Technology, N.V., 2007 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 22488 (N.D. Cal. Mar, 19, 2007). On the other hand, restrained and orderly computer forensic examinations have been permitted, where the moving party has demonstrated that the opposing party has defaulted in its discovery obligations by unwillingness or failure to produce relevant information by more conventional means. White v. Graceland College Center etc., 2009 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 22068 , *22, 24-25 n. 17 (D. Kan. Mar. 18, 2009).\
Id . at *8 (emphasis in original).\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Discussion \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 I have exhaustively discussed the case law invoked by the parties because from the outset of my review of Procaps' motion, I wanted to be certain I was not misapprehending a legal principle being advanced by Procaps to justify the discovery on discovery it was seeking.\
As I read the case law presented by Procaps, it requires more of a showing than was made here to warrant "forensic imaging, running of expanded search terms, and an attempt to forensically recover any user-created deleted files" in the period October 24, 2012-December 29, 2012 or October 24, 2012-April/May 2013, and the "forensic imaging" of certain backup tapes or already imaged "snapshots" and running of "expanded search terms" on "legacy Banner email and file server information," as sought by Procaps. DE 606, p. 12-14.\
Patheon's Search Process. The evidence supports Patheon's view that it conducted a reasonable search for ESI. Its outside counsel interviewed employees to identify sources of relevant ESI. It does not tell me when counsel interviewed which employees, but it does say that it interviewed "more than 30 custodians," DE 375-12, p. 3, and given the nature of this case, that is not an insubstantial number. Counsel also used a checklist for the interviews, DE 375-12, p. 3, which is always a good practice assuming the checklist is a robust one. Here, I am told that the interviews "included a discussion of the case, potentially relevant documents, and ways to locate potentially relevant documents (such as relevant keywords and folder locations)." DE 375-12, p. 3-4. That sounds robust, or at least, this description has not been undermined by any deposition testimony of interviewees since no such testimony was provided to me.\
The employees interviewed then identified responsive electronic documents and those documents, totaling three million in number, were collected by Patheon's IT employees.  Id. at 4. Patheon collected "all emails maintained by each of the Custodians, including those residing on live email server and emails stored in PST archives." Id. I take the latter to mean individual archives on an employee's computer hard drive and not a network email archive of some kind, but the point is that emails that were maintained by employees at the time of their interview were collected without culling.\
Patheon also (1) collected potentially relevant folders identified by interviewees on their computer hard drives; (2) collected all of an interviewee's "user-created" files from the interviewee's computer where the interviewee believed that relevant files were maintained by the interviewee, but the individual could not [*33] identify a specific location for the files; (3) collected all files on a "home directory" if the interviewees stored files in this location; (4) collected "shared server folders" identified during interviews and ESI stored "on other media such as flash drives"; and (5) collected "potentially relevant hard copy files" which were converted to an electronic format. Id. \
Thereafter, there was a quality control step and a de-duplication step. Metadata was preserved to allow reviewers to see the source of each document. A date restriction was added. And then search terms were applied to the document set after the search terms were tested and sample documents were reviewed "to ensure that the search terms were comprehensive."  Id. at 5.\
Absence of evidence of flaws warranting a forensic examination. Could there be flaws in this process? There could be. Patheon might have missed an important custodian. A custodian might have omitted a relevant folder. Emails that had been deleted by custodians would not have been picked up. (My understanding is that they were not automatically captured otherwise by Patheon except on backup tapes which, I understand, were not restored for review).\
But discovery on discovery is not permitted because of possibilities. In denying a motion for a forensic examination in the context of a Rule 26(b)(2)(B) claim, the court in Bradfield v. Mid-Continent Cas. Co., [2014 BL 255570], 2014 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 128677 (M.D. Fla. Sept. 15, 2014) explained that "broad and uninformative responses by Defense counsel that Defendant is entitled to all information reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence, and that he cannot prove a negative, do nothing to aid the Court" in determining if good cause exists to order production of reasonably inaccessible data. Id . at *9. The court added that while a party might not know what reasonably inaccessible data sources might contain to support a showing of good cause, in this case there was ample information available to the requesting party: "Here, however, there is an abundance of evidence from Plaintiffs' counsel himself, Mr. Milgrim, as well as the experts, which should undoubtedly give Defense counsel enough information to articulate some basis for why the intrusive search he proposes is necessary due to its importance to the issues at stake in this action. Yet, he has failed to do so." Id . at *10. See also Klayman v. City Pages, [2014 BL 297640], 2014 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 150253 , *14 (M.D. Fla. October 22, 2014) (where defendants had represented that their production had been complete and had otherwise properly objected to discovery requests, "Plaintiff's mere speculation that more documents must exist is not a sufficient basis for the Court to order an invasive search of Defendants computers and telephone records.")\
Procaps did not provide me with any testimony or other information to suggest that Patheon omitted a key custodian from the interview process. To the contrary it agreed that there was no issue with the collection of emails from custodians beyond the 30 to 35 that were interviewed. DE 606-1, p. 76. ("Mr. Rosenthal, is there an issue over the collection of e-mails from custodians [*34] beyond the 30 to 35? ... MR. ROSENTHAL: No.")\
Procaps also has not identified any testimony from a custodian to suggest that relevant files were intentionally or accidentally overlooked by a custodian during the interview process. Procaps did not identify any categories of missing documents. For example, unlike in the fact patterns in the cases cited by Procaps, Procaps does not attempt to tie any of its complaints of alleged document retention/production misfeasance to any element of proof of its case or its rebuttal of any defenses raised by Patheon. Cf., e.g., Nacco, supra (the forensic examination was limited to determining the scope of illegal access to Yale's proprietary databases admitted to by Lilly and the basis for the lawsuit); Brocade, supra (misappropriation of trade secrets was in issue and there was an admission that 196 of Brocade's source code files were on the hard drive of a computer of a former employee of plaintiff and now an employee of defendant); Balboa, supra (where copyright and Lanham Act claims were being made, imaging defendants' computers for evidence of copyrighted digital embroidery designs); Weatherford, supra (another misappropriation case where a former employee downloaded employer information onto a thumb drive without permission and used the information to start a competing business).\
There is also, as Procaps readily acknowledges, DE 606-1, p. 62-63, no evidence of spoliation. In the lengthy recitation of Procaps' view of the facts from its various memoranda, Procaps uses "likely spoliation," or "likely deleted, purged or otherwise modified," or similar words, but Procaps' belief of what it thinks is likely is not a substitute for record evidence that Patheon destroyed electronic evidence relevant to this matter.\
Testimony of James Mullen. The absence of evidence of deleted ESI was the subject of considerable discussion in the October 6 hearing. See, e.g., DE 606-1, p. 146-56. In its supplemental brief following that hearing, DE 606, Procaps pointed me to the testimony of the CEO of Patheon, James Mullen, as evidence of deletion of emails and text messages. DE 606-2. Mr. Mullen was deposed on February 14, 2014, about three and onehalf weeks before discovery closed.\
In the case of text messages, Mr. Mullen testified that he used two mobile phones in 2013 with which (1) he texted colleagues about business and (2) that had been changed out. DE 606-2, p. 265-66. In the Mullen transcript pages provided to me, there was no discussion of the nature or number of Mr. Mullen's texting topics. There was no information provided to me to suggest that Procaps had an interest in seeing texts on Mr. Mullen's then current mobile device to get an idea of the types of topics covered in his text messages. (That may be because of Mr. Mullen's statement that a review of them would result in a "fantastic conversation with my children."  Id. at 265.) Nor is there any proof that Patheon captured text messages of its employees on any of its servers. In other words, a forensic analysis of Patheon's electronic information storage systems would not retrieve [*35] these text messages.\
As for emails, Mr. Mullen testified, "I frequently delete some e-mails after I read them if I don't think I have any reason to refer to them."  Id. at 266. Mr. Mullen did not receive a litigation hold notice until April or May 2013. He was asked if he deleted emails before he received a hold notice and he answered, "It's possible. I don't know."  Id. at 267. When the questioner broadened the question of deletion back to his arrival at Patheon through December 2012, he answered simply, "I don't know." Id. And when the examiner pressed by asking, "Do you have all of them?" Mr. Mullen answered, "I do not know, because I do not know whether I deleted any of them." Id. Finally, when confronted with the number of emails Mr. Mullen receives daily and his estimate of the much fewer emails he had in his mailbox, he was asked again about deleting emails before he received a hold notice, and he testified: "Before then, if I deleted them, I deleted them. I have no idea. You can go back through the tapes and the records. Because they're all going to sit up in our archives."  Id. at 269.\
What is the significance of this testimony here? Procaps never explained to me what role Mr. Mullen might play in Procaps' proof of its claims. His emails could not modify the terms of the Collaboration Agreement. Rather, from my survey of other filings, Procaps has already advised the Court that it has documents from Patheon that will prove horizontal market allocation:\
\pard\pardeftab720\li539\ri539\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 In short, Procaps will present evidence to the jury from Patheon's own documents and witnesses, as well as from Dr. Blair, proving that the horizontal market allocation resulting from the exclusivity provisions of the Collaboration Agreement after the Banner acquisition interfered with the competitive process and injured competition in the relevant markets. This kind of evidence is more than sufficient for Procaps to make out a prima facie case under an appropriately structured rule of reason.\
"Procaps' Memorandum in Opposition to Patheon's Motion for Judgment and Alternative Motion for Leave to File a Second Motion for Summary Judgment," DE 595, p. 11.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Nor could Mr. Mullen's emails change the definition of the relevant market. That definition has been agreed to by the parties already. "Procaps' Response to Patheon's Motion to Compel Production of Documents and Interrogatory Responses," DE 600, p. 4, n.3 ("The Court has limited the 'relevant market' in this case to the United States by adopting, with Procaps' assent, 'Patheon's uncontested market definitions' [DE 524 at pp. 29 n.7, 37]."\
And Procaps has not raised in any of its submissions to me any issues with Patheon's production that affected its expert's ability to prepare an expert report or Procaps' ability to put on a damages case.\
Mr. Mullen's testimony might have prompted a request by Procaps' counsel to Patheon's counsel to inquire about the accuracy of Mr. Mullen's recollections, and, if he had in fact deleted emails between October 2012 and April 2013, what steps Patheon had taken or would take to evaluate the impact of any such deletions. They might have been told what I was told at the [*36] October 6 hearing by Patheon's counsel: Mr. Mullen was interviewed and "we did not discover or learn or have any reason to believe that he was deleting or had deleted relevant e-mails." DE 606-1, p. 79. They might have evaluated whether Mr. Mullen's emails were produced from other sources (emails are sent to, or received from, another person), so Patheon might have produced emails that Mr. Mullen might have deleted. Or Patheon could have done what Mr. Mullen suggested, gone to "archives" to see what was there (as noted above, Patheon has all of its email and filer server backup tapes dating back to October 2012).\
Illustratively, a case cited by Patheon unwittingly makes the point. Major Tours v. Colorel, 2009 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 97554 , 2009 WL 344671 (D.N.J. October 20, 2009) involved alleged racial profiling in commercial bus inspections. The motion in question was one for a protective order regarding plaintiffs' request for copies of emails located on backup tapes stored by the New Jersey Department of Transportation (NJDOT). To do so would have cost the NJDOT about $1.5 million. 2009 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 97554 , [WL] at *1. The relevant time period for discovery was 2000 through 2007. Plaintiffs' focus on backup tapes related to a commercial bus investigation unit that was part of the NJDOT until July 2003 and became part of the Motor Vehicle Commission (MVC) after that. Scattered NJDOT backup tapes existed for the period between 2000 and April 2003. Backup tapes existed for the period April 2005 forward for the MVC. NJDOT backup tapes existed for the period April 2003 forward. Plaintiffs were hopeful that emails from the period 2000 to April 2003 would exist on some of these backup tapes, but no one could say with any certainty whether this would be the case if the backup tapes were restored. 2009 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 97554 , [WL] at *2. Defendants had otherwise "harvested" 152,000 emails from custodians, reviewed 135,000 of them, and produced 70,000 that contained one or more hits of the search terms agreed to by the parties. Id . \
The magistrate judge first held that backup tapes are "typically classified as inaccessible" under Fed. R. Civ. P. 26(b)(2) and plaintiffs had not "credibly rebutted" defendants' estimate of the time and cost to retrieve the requested emails. 2009 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 97554 , [WL] at *3. The court then held that, in any event, good cause under Rule 26(b)(2)(B) did not exist to order the production under a benefit-burden analysis:\
\pard\pardeftab720\li539\ri539\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 In the Court's view the most important considerations are the fact that defendants have already produced tens of thousands of relevant documents, a substantial number of depositions have been and will be taken, there is no evidence of intentional spoliation, and the requested e-mails are likely to be of marginal benefit and cumulative of documents already produced. The Court concludes that the slim likelihood that new relevant evidence may be discovered does not outweigh the substantial burden and expense that must be spent to retrieve the requested e-mails on defendants' 2500 backup tapes.\
2009 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 97554 , [WL] at 4. However, plaintiff's compromise proposal to search 15 NJDOT backup tapes was allowed by the court with plaintiff, however, having to shoulder one-half of the search costs. 2009 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 97554 , [WL] at *6. Despite [*37] the court's view that the emails would be cumulative of existing evidence, the fact that the case involved issues of public importance and plaintiff insisted that a search would produce relevant emails persuaded the court to allow this much more modest production subject to partial `cost-shifting. Id . \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Here, Mr. Mullen's testimony might have prompted a discovery-related response, perhaps involving at least sampling of some backup tapes, if Procaps felt it was important to follow up. However, this testimony does not, in the context of the facts as a whole, warrant a forensic examination of Patheon's electronic information storage systems.\
Testimony of Geoffrey Glass. Procaps also referred me to the testimony of Geoffrey Glass, a former Patheon executive, who now is in charge of Banner Life Sciences. DE 606, p, 6. Mr. Glass apparently received information from Procaps under the Collaboration Agreement. He testified that after Patheon acquired Banner and he was put in the position of "leading our proprietary products business unit," he "asked for the materials that were on my personal computer to be isolated and eventually expunged so that I did not have access to them." DE 606-3, p. 343. He then added, "From when I went over to take over the Banner Life Sciences newly created business unit, we isolated and expunged proposal information." Id. Procaps acknowledges that it was appropriate to screen Mr. Glass from Procaps "Confidential Information" after Patheon became a competitor, but then says that the deletion of information from Mr. Glass's computer violated its duty to preserve relevant ESI. DE 606, p. 7. But I fail to see how expungement of allegedly confidential information that Procaps provided to Patheon represents a loss of ESI when Procaps was the source of the information in the first instance.\
And unlike the unlawful misappropriations of information that are the fulcrum of much of the forensic examination case law, here, there was an agreement that resulted in the transfer of information from Procaps to Patheon. Mr. Glass testified that he was not aware that Procaps ever marked as confidential any information actually provided under the Collaboration Agreement. DE 606-3, p. 343. Whatever the accuracy of that testimony, the Court has already held in its summary judgment order that Procaps' claims of Patheon's misuse of confidential information were not substantiated by the evidence:\
\pard\pardeftab720\li539\ri539\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 The heart of Count V is that by coupling the Banner acquisition with Patheon's access to Procaps' confidential information, Patheon is now going to be able to use Procaps' confidential information to unfairly compete with Procaps. To that end, Procaps makes much of the fact that Patheon executive Geoffrey Glass, who had access to Procaps' confidential information, is now in charge of the Banner unit in Patheon.\
The problem for Procaps is two-fold. First, mere possession of information, even in Mr. Glass' head, is insufficient to establish a common law unfair competition claim in the context of this case. Rather, Florida law requires proof, [*38] at a minimum, that defendant improperly used or disclosed the allegedly confidential information to unfairly compete with plaintiff.\
...\
[T]here is no evidence that Patheon has improperly used or disclosed Procaps' confidential information. Indeed, Procaps has previously conceded that it "cannot pinpoint any specific piece of confidential information that [Patheon has] actually misused" and that it cannot pinpoint damages proximately caused by the alleged misuse of its confidential information. [ECF Nos. 138, pp. 6-7; 333, p. 12, \'b6 25]. Moreover, Procaps also revealed that it could not "describe the specific, actual competitive harm that has occurred from any actual misuse of this Confidential Information, other than the fact that Procaps' direct competitor possesses its most sensitive confidential business information." [ECF No. 333-8, p. 17].\
The Court understands that it may be difficult for Procaps to have direct evidence that its confidential information was misused. But Procaps has not presented any circumstantial evidence of misuse. For instance, there is no evidence that Patheon used Procaps' confidential information post-acquisition to: change its prices to be below Procaps' prices; incorporate Procaps' manufacturing procedure in its own facilities; or reverse engineer Procaps' technology or products. Indeed, as the Court is intimately familiar with the parties' discovery requests, it does not appear that Procaps even tried to get that information by, for example, requesting to inspect Patheon/Banner's manufacturing or development facilities. And the time to conduct that kind of discovery has long since passed.\
DE 565, p. 48-49. There are no discovery shortcomings identified in Procaps' submissions on its motion that would warrant a forensic examination to look for any such evidence.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Mr. Glass also testified that he deleted an email that was shown to him during his deposition apparently again because of the sensitivity to Procaps of the Banner acquisition ("The reason I did it was because of the potential sensitivities raised given the context and situation that we were in and I was taking conservative actions given that situation and context and I thought it prudent of a partner to do so.") DE 606-3, p. 40. Again, the email in question was in Procaps' possession. So this ESI was not lost. And no other aspect of Mr. Glass's action to delete one email warrants a forensic examination of Patheon's electronic information storage systems.\
I will address two other additional points made by Procaps on this topic. Procaps argues that Mr. Glass's decision to "expunge" data relating to Procaps' "proposal information" from Mr. Glass's ESI justifies a forensic examination under Nacco, 278 F.R.D. at 404 , where, Procaps says, the court admonished a party who did not perform an ESI search for relevant documents "until after it installed a 'firewall' in the system to prevent its employees from misappropriating plaintiff's information, and did not search for ESI that was downloaded before the firewall's implementation, including 'collect[ing] evidence [*39] from the key players or search[ing] key players' computers to see if ESI existed or had been deleted'." DE 606, p. 11-12, n. 6. I fail to see the connection here. In Nacco, the former dealer, Lilly, admitted that its employees illegally accessed Yale's proprietary database and this malfeasance was compounded by a number of discovery sins that followed as catalogued above. Here, Procaps provides the information in question under the Collaboration Agreement. Had Mr. Glass accessed the information once he became head of Banner Life Sciences and misused it, there might be some symmetry with Nacco. But he did just the opposite; he made sure he could not access it by having it expunged.\
Procaps also argued that the (1) vice president for business development for North America (Joe Principe); (2) executive director of global science technology and pharmaceutical development services (Anil Cane); (3) associate director of "PDS Liquid Fill" (Edgar Jaynes); and (4) business development manager (Peter Franck), were exposed to "its Confidential Information," and "trained on [Procaps'] new technologies, softgel formulation and development." DE 606, p 3. Yet they did not receive a litigation hold notice until April or May 2013. Id. \
I am not sure what the point is of this observation. If these individuals were deposed, they could have been asked about their retention of the Confidential Information or what use, if any, they made of it. I assume that they were not asked because I was not presented with any testimony from them that compromised Patheon's ESI production. If they were not deposed, then I assume that their exposure to this Confidential Information was being planned as the subject of trial testimony. But while saying that persons exposed to Procaps' Confidential Information did not receive a hold notice until the Spring of 2013 might have given rise to a demand at a meet-and-confer session for follow up, or a motion to compel depending upon the response to such a demand, it does not warrant compulsion of a forensic examination of Patheon's electronic storage media.\
Retention of an ESI consultant. Patheon did not engage an outside ESI vendor to collect relevant ESI. Referring to the Court's February 28 Order, Procaps notes that Patheon criticized Procaps for not retaining an "ESI retrieval consultant." If Procaps reads the Court's February 28 Order as saying that if a party to litigation does not retain an ESI retrieval consultant, a forensic examination is warranted, I disagree with the reading. The Court's February 28 Order must be read as a whole. Trying to isolate one sentence and then divorcing that sentence from the facts to create a stand-alone legal proposition does not produce a fair reading of the February 28 Order.\
In any event, Patheon's IT employees were involved in the ESI retrieval process. There is no evidence in the record to suggest that they were not effective.\
Suspending deletion of backup tapes. Procaps argued that Patheon did not suspend deletion of backup tapes until well after discovery commenced. DE 559, p. 3. Even if that were the case, [*40] it would not justify a forensic examination of Patheon's accessible electronic storage systems. But Patheon has explained that, in fact, it has preserved all of its email and file server backup tapes for the period October 2012 through April 2013. DE 568, p. 19, DE 568-1, Para. 5.\
Peter Bigelow. Procaps complained that Mr. Bigelow was never asked to preserve or not delete relevant documents. DE 559, p. 3. Mr. Bigelow was Patheon's former President \'97 North American Operations. Procaps described him as a "critical" witness for Procaps. That may be so, but Mr. Bigelow left Patheon in October 2011, three months before the Collaboration Agreement was signed. He stayed on as a consultant until February 2012. Suit was not filed until December 2012. Apparently, he testified that he had no relevant hard copy documents or ESI. DE 568, p. 23-24. Patheon also informed me that Procaps did not seek documents or ESI from Mr. Bigelow and that it produced more than 300 emails and attachments sent to or from Mr. Bigelow. DE 568, p. 24. It is not clear to me why Procaps believed Patheon had an obligation to tell a former employee to preserve or not delete relevant documents, just as it is not clear to me why Procaps thinks that a former employee would take with him Patheon documents after leaving its employment. I do not discern any basis for a forensic examination of Patheon's electronic storage systems based on what Mr. Bigelow said.\
Untimely litigation holds. search terms, and Banner ESI. In the end, Procaps' argument comes down to this: the Court's order granting Patheon's motion for a forensic analysis was not premised on the loss of ESI, but on the "mere possibility of relevant documents not being 'located' because of the lack of a timely litigation hold and the use of inadequate search terms in collecting documents." DE 585, p. 11. Specifically, Procaps invokes this holding of the Court:\
\pard\pardeftab720\li539\ri539\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Procaps' counsel stresses that there is no evidence that any ESI or other documents have been deleted or purged with no chance of being recovered. Even if true, this argument does not address the indisputable conclusion that the ESI and document searches were inadequate \'97 a scenario which strongly suggests that some (and perhaps even a significant amount of) responsive discovery from Procaps has not yet been located and mandates a comprehensive forensic search of Procaps' ESI and other sources of relevant documents.\
DE 341, p. 5-6. It argues that just as Procaps' ESI and document searches were inadequate, so were Patheon's based on the timing of the hold notices, the failure to "preserve, collect and produce relevant documents"; and the "total alteration or destruction of Banner's ESI and infrastructure" as they existed in October 2012 and December 2012. DE 585, p. 11.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 I address each of these points below.\
Hold notices. There is no dispute that Patheon had a duty to preserve at least by October 24 2012, that it issued its first hold notice on December 22, 2012 to six individuals (eight, if two IT employees are included), and that subsequent hold notices were not sent to several dozen additional employees [*41] until April and May 2013.\
Patheon cites to two cases that take a measured view of delayed litigation holds.\
Rahman v. Smith & Wollensky Restaurant Group, [2009 BL 350919], 2009 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 30275 , 2009 WL 773344 (S.D.N.Y. March 18, 2009) is a restaurant-related employment discrimination case where 100,000 guest checks were produced by the defendant. So-called "table assignment sheets" had gaps in their production. A witness for defendant testified that a litigation hold was instigated in "Summer of 2008, maybe" rather than in August 2006 when suit was brought. The magistrate judge held that this delay in and of itself did not prove spoliation had occurred or that other action was warranted:\
\pard\pardeftab720\li539\ri539\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Mr. Chiovaro's isolated statement, however, is insufficient evidence to support a finding of spoliation. Even assuming there was, in fact, no litigation hold until the summer of 2008, the plaintiff has failed to establish that any gap in the Table Assignment Sheet production is attributable to the failure to institute litigation hold at an earlier date. Moreover, the guest checks undeniably contain table assignment information that the plaintiff can use to analyze his claims, thus seriously diminishing the importance of the Table Assignment Sheets to the plaintiff's case. In sum, the new evidence from Mr. Chiovaro's deposition does not alter my previous conclusion: the plaintiff is not entitled to further discovery related to table assignments.\
[2009 BL 350919], 2009 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 30275 , [WL] at *6 (footnote omitted).\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Haynes v. Dart, [2010 BL 4878], 2010 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 1901 , 2010 WL 140387 (N.D. Ill. January 11, 2010) was a purported class action against Cook County and several of its employees in connection with alleged deprivation of mental health treatment and humane confinement conditions, among other claims, by pre-trial detainees at the Cook County Jail. Suit was brought in August 2008. [2010 BL 4878], 2010 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 1901 , [WL] at *1. The superintendent of the jail division housing the named plaintiffs, Miller, was not a defendant; he only became superintendent in January 2009. Rather, Miller was identified by plaintiffs as a person who may have information regarding conditions of confinement. [2010 BL 4878], 2010 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 1901 , [WL] at *1-2.\
Miller was deposed in October 2009. He testified that he took notes during a meeting with his predecessor, and during weekly meetings with other jail administrators. He did not keep these notes and said he was never told to retain documents relevant to the case. Separately, defendants did not put a litigation hold in place until November 2009, about 15 months after the lawsuit was filed. [2010 BL 4878], 2010 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 1901 , [WL] at *2, 4. Based on this testimony and inaction, plaintiffs moved for sanctions.\
The district court first noted that the "materiality of Miller's notes is entirely speculative" because "plaintiffs' counsel never questioned Miller about the content of his notes."\
With respect to the delay in issuing the litigation hold, the court explained that the steps that a party "must take to satisfy its obligation to preserve evidence may vary from case to case." [2010 BL 4878], 2010 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 1901 , [WL] at *4 (citing Danis v. USN Communications, Inc., 2000 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 16900 , 2000 WL 1694325 , *4 (N.D. Ill. October 23, 2000). The failure to institute a litigation hold in a timely manner is "relevant to the court's consideration, but it is not per se evidence of [*42] sanctionable conduct." Id . (citing Danis). The court then explained the background facts. The case was one of approximately 800 lawsuits pending against the Sheriff's Office, and "the establishment of a formal litigation hold in each case could cause an undue burden." [2010 BL 4878], 2010 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 1901 , [WL] at *4. Plaintiffs' claims and discovery requests were also broad, leading the court to conclude that it was not "objectively unreasonable" for the defendant to decide that "a large-scale litigation hold" was not required. The court did not excuse the failure to instruct Miller to retain documents, but then added that this failure was no consequence on the facts presented:\
\pard\pardeftab720\li539\ri539\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 But plaintiffs do not provide a sufficient reason to conclude that defendants failed to comply with their discovery obligations. There is no evidence that relevant documents were destroyed pursuant to a routine destruction policy that defendants failed to curb. At issue here are personal notes that Miller may have jotted down during meetings, and that may relate to allegations in plaintiffs' broad complaint. The court is not persuaded that plaintiffs were deprived of discovery necessary to prosecute their case. Defendants have responded to plaintiffs' written discovery requests, and have produced over 10,000 pages of documents to date.\
Furthermore, plaintiffs do not demonstrate any substantive prejudice from a failure to preserve Miller's notes, Plaintiffs' admitted reason for deposing Miller was to determine whether he "implemented new policies or procedures that were correcting some of the problem conditions" that existed during the tenure of his predecessor, defendant Snooks. But Miller's testimony shows he made no changes to relevant operating policies or procedures while he was superintendent. Miller was able to answer counsel's pointed questions about the substance of his transition meeting with Snooks. Plaintiffs do not present the court with any reason to infer that defendants' failure to preserve Miller's notes caused the loss of responsive documents material to plaintiffs' case. The same is true with respect to notes Miller may have taken during the weekly preaccountability and accountability meetings. Miller testified that he retains copies of written agendas, presentations, and handouts circulated at these meetings. He also stated that secretaries from the sheriff's executive staff are present at accountability meetings and that they take handwritten notes. There is no evidence the secretarial notes were destroyed, and plaintiffs do not explain why their notes would be insufficient.\
[2010 BL 4878], 2010 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 1901 , [WL] at *4 (record citations omitted).\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 In denying the motion for sanctions, the court added that Plaintiffs' motion "appears to be a thinly-veiled attempt to extend the discovery deadlines previously set and significantly extended twice by this court and to obtain at least twelve more depositions, in addition to the fifty-five depositions already conducted or planned." [2010 BL 4878], 2010 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 1901 , [WL] at *5 (emphasis in original).\
For its part, as noted already, Procaps relies heavily on [*43] Nacco for the proposition that a delayed hold notice results in deleted documents. It also relies on the Court's February 28, 2014 Order suggesting that Procaps delay in issuing a formal litigation hold notice was enough of a basis to require a forensic examination that the same result should apply here.\
I have already explained above why Nacco is a very different case than we have here. It is not comparable either factually or legally to the circumstances presented in Procaps' motion.\
And while I cannot speak for the Court, one cannot read the Court's February 28, 2014 Order in parts. Taken as a whole, the Order is premised on a number of discovery miscues, including a 16-month delay in issuance of any litigation hold to anyone and the failure of counsel to play any role in the discovery process. DE 341, p. 3-6.\
I do not know what discovery topics were pressed in depositions of Patheon witnesses during the discovery period, but I do know that Procaps has not presented me with persuasive evidence that the delayed litigation holds resulted in the loss of any information relevant to Procaps' ability to prosecute its case or address any of Patheon's affirmative defenses.\
Patheon also made it clear that it:\
\pard\pardeftab720\li539\ri539\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 (1) has all Banner emails from the time period October 10, 2012 forward, DE 606-1, p. 42, 67;\
(2) has a December 29, 2012, snapshot of Patheon's entire electronic storage system, including emails, id. at 65;\
(3) also has a December 29, 2011 snapshot of Patheon's email system, id.;\
(4) and has a July 2013 Banner email system snapshot as well, id. at 70.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 In addition, Patheon does not have an automatic deletion policy applicable to emails, DE 568-1, p. 1-2, and has preserved its email and file server backup tapes for the period October 2012 through April 2013, id. at 2.\
It does seem clear that before discovery closed, Patheon did not identify which custodians received the December 2012 hold notice and which ones received the April/May 2013 notice. Patheon says Procaps did not ask this question theretofore. DE 606-1, p. 9. Procaps says it asked the question of when the hold notice was issued, apparently in March 2014, just before discovery closed, id. at 15-16, and did not know at the time that there was more than one hold notice. Id. at 16. As I understand what happened after that, Procaps wanted to take a Rule 30(b)(6) deposition to mirror what Patheon did when it learned about Procaps' discovery conduct (as recited in the Court's February 28, 2014 Order). The Court rejected that request but required Patheon to answer interrogatories on the subject, which Patheon answered on April 8, 2014. DE 559-4. That answer did not distinguish the dates when custodians received the hold notice because that question was not literally asked and the Court did not require Patheon to do more.  Id. at 16-23. Procaps first learned of which custodians received hold notices on what dates during the October 6, 2014 hearing.\
Had the parties discussed custodians and hold notice dates during their meet-and-confer sessions or had questions along these lines been asked early in the case, Procaps would have learned [*44] of the multiple notices and to whom they were directed. It then would have had a number of options, including requesting that Patheon confirm that its interview processes addressed email retention issues before a recipient received a hold notice and asking questions on this topic in depositions of key players, and depending upon the results, asking Patheon to review email server backup data for one or more custodians. If the facts warranted it, Procaps might also have filed a motion to compel production of emails stored in backup media.\
But the parties are no longer in a discovery mode, and the referral to the Special Master is limited to Procaps' motion to compel a forensic examination. Without some information to demonstrate that the delayed hold notices have resulted in deletions of relevant information, not duplicated in what has been produced; or gaps in, or missing categories of, documents; or testimony that suggests that the delayed hold notices may have prejudiced Procaps in a material way, the record on the hold notice issuance dates does not support compulsion of a forensic examination of Patheon's (which includes Banner's) electronic storage media.\
Search terms. During the October 6 hearing, I learned that Patheon's search terms were not disclosed until interrogatory answers were served by Patheon in April 2014 because Procaps apparently had not earlier asked to see the search terms used by Patheon until near the end of discovery. DE 606-1, p. 196-97.\
Despite the dictates of Rule 26(f), both sides elected early on in the matter to go their separate ways on the issue of search terms, instead of discussing them collaboratively. Patheon's counsel explained at the October 6 hearing what happened:\
\pard\pardeftab720\li539\ri539\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 We came up with our search terms, tested them like we described, and we collected documents that way. And Procaps did exactly the same thing.\
So had Procaps reached out to us in the beginning of the case and said, "Hey, look, this is the way we want to do it. We want to negotiate search terms at the very beginning of the case," we certainly would have done that.\
DE 606-1, p. 200. Parties should talk about search terms at the beginning of the case, not until a couple of weeks before a discovery cut off after search terms had already been applied months earlier to produce documents.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Both counsel should be chastened here because both sides should have put the issue of search terms on their Rule 26(f) check list for discussion. A case cited by Patheon makes the point, FDIC v. Brudnicki, 291 F.R.D. 669 , 677 , n.12 and 679 (N.D. Fla. 2013) (discovery protocol appended to the court's opinion required defendants and plaintiff to collaborate on a set of search terms and designation of custodians, the court earlier stating: "the Court expects the parties to work together, notwithstanding which side first proposes the search terms"). One cited by Procaps does also. Seven Seas Cruises S. De R.L. v. V. Ships Leisure SAM, [2011 BL 420708], 2011 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 19465 , 2011 WL 772855 , at *5 (S.D. Fla. February 19, 2011) ("it appears that many of the disputes related to the production of e-discovery could have been significantly narrowed, if not totally avoided, [*45] had the Parties held an ediscovery conference early-on in the litigation as required by Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 26(f) , wherein issues regarding disclosure and production of ESI could have been thoroughly discussed"). See also, e.g., In re Seroquel Products Liability Litig., 244 F.R.D. 650 , 662 (M.D. Fla. 2007) ([W]hile key word searching is a recognized method to winnow relevant documents from large repositories, use of this technique must be a cooperative and informed process.")\
If both parties had followed such a cooperative approach from the outset, the myriad discovery problems presented in this case, and the substantial time and cost associated with addressing discovery-related motions, would have been substantially reduced or perhaps even avoided.\
But, for these purposes, the point is that Procaps' complaints about Patheon's failure to use "Banner" or "Collaboration Agreement" as search terms do not resonate where Procaps mimics language from the Court's February 28 Order about search terms not used by Procaps but the parties are not similarly situated for this purpose. For Procaps to use "Banner" made sense because Banner is a competitor and this case is in large part about impacts to competition. For Patheon to use "Banner" as a search term would have generated every document containing the word Banner\'97an overinclusive and wasteful exercise. In addition, Patheon used "collab* as part of its search term process which would have picked up "Collaboration" and "Collaboration Agreement."\
And, in any event, complaints about search terms are the province of meet-and-confer discussions, Rule 16 conferences, or motions to compel or for a protective order early in discovery before production occurs or while it is occurring. Illustratively, in a case cited by Procaps, Seven Seas Cruises S. De R.L. v. V. Ships Leisure SAM, [2011 BL 420708], 2011 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 19465 , 2011 WL 772855 , *1 (S.D. Fla. Feb. 19, 2011) there was reference to an order granting a motion to compel requiring a producing party to specify the search terms being used in conducting ESI searches.\
Patheon acknowledged that it did not run search terms on Patheon's electronic storage media but rather ran them on the emails of 30-35 custodians and electronic documents it retrieved based on interviews of these custodians. DE 559-4, p. 15. As noted above, one could find fault with this system in some circumstances but where, as here, counsel was heavily involved in the interviewing process, and signed discovery responses under the mandate of Rule 26(g) , and Procaps has not identified flaws or omissions in the ESI produced, this is not one of those circumstances.\
Procaps also argues that Patheon never produced Procaps "confidential and proprietary information" that "resides somewhere in Patheon or Banner's computer systems" as evidence that Patheon's search terms were inadequate. DE 606, p. 15. I do not know if Procaps requested production of information that it produced to Patheon. I do know that Mr. Glass said that he did not want to have it once he was put in charge of Banner Life Sciences and he had it expunged from systems to which he had access. I also know that Procaps knows what it provided to [*46] Patheon and the Court has already found that the discovery conducted by Procaps did not produce evidence that the information was misused. But while this potential quirk in Patheon's production might have meaning in the context of a motion to compel, it does not warrant a forensic examination of Patheon's electronic information systems.\
Procaps adds that it would be unduly prejudicial and it would be patently unfair if it was not permitted to have a forensic examiner run expanded search terms on the three million documents that Patheon is holding. Id. This is not an argument in support of a forensic examination. A forensic examiner is not needed to run expanded search terms. Rather, this is an argument attacking search terms used by Patheon's counsel and that could have been and should have been the subject of discussion a long time ago in this matter. In any event, I am powerless to act on Procaps' request because running expanded search terms on a dataset is not within the scope of the referral to me by the Court.\
On this record, Procaps' arguments about Patheon's search terms do not warrant an order permitting a forensic examination of Patheon's electronic information storage systems.\
Banner's ESI. The issues related to Banner's ESI also are discovery issues, not forensic examination issues.\
There was no evidence presented to me that Patheon had control over Banner's documents before the acquisition of Banner was consummated on December 4, 2012. See DE 606-1, p. 46, DE 565, p. 11. Patheon issued its first hold notice just a few weeks later. Procaps says that Banner should have issued a litigation hold in October before the acquisition was consummated, DE 559, p. 8. Why? It was yet owned by Patheon. I was not advised that Banner had been sent a demand letter of a kind that would have justified issuance of a document retention notice. In any event, there is no evidence in the record that Banner failed to retain any ESI between October and December.\
In response to Procaps' requests for production, Patheon imposed limits on its searches of Banner information. Those limits were never the subject of a motion to compel. DE 606-1, p. 167-72. Patheon objected to the breadth of Banner-related requests to produce and agreed to produce "documents sufficient to show" the information requested. DE 568-4, p. 1-2. It also limited its agreement to produce Banner documents to those related to the "Field" and "Territory," words of art representing areas covered by the Collaboration Agreement. DE 568-6. Again, there was no motion practice over these articulated limitations.\
Procaps made attempts to convert into something nefarious Patheon's integration of Banner's ESI into Patheon's system after December 4, but having studied the record, I do not see any harm to Procaps. As noted above, Patheon has Banner employees' emails from October 2012 forward. It has a December 29, 2012 mirror image of Patheon and Banner's electronic documents. There is no testimony, and there are no documents that suggest, that any Banner-related ESI has been lost. If Banner ESI was critical [*47] to Procaps' prosecution of its claims, I would assume that Procaps deposed key players at Banner. If it did conduct such depositions, apparently there was no testimony that would have supported a motion to compel a forensic examination, because none was presented in Procaps' submissions on the motion. If it did not conduct depositions of any Banner employees, I am hard pressed to see why these persons would all of a sudden became critical custodians of material ESI.\
In all events, if Patheon failed to produce relevant ESI from Banner employees, the response should not be a motion to compel a forensic examination, but a motion to compel production, which is not the subject of the Court's referral to the Special Master. Based on the record presented to me by the parties, all of the issues associated with Banner ESI are outside of the referral because none of these issues represent, in the Eleventh Circuit's parlance, "some non-compliance with discovery rules" by Patheon. In Re Ford, supra , 345 F.3d at 1317 .\
Procaps' plea for a re-search of Patheon's ESI. Procaps makes a final plea based on two Southern District of Florida decisions and Nacco. It writes:\
\pard\pardeftab720\li539\ri539\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 All Procaps is seeking at this time is the collection and searching of Patheon's ESI by a neutral, third-party examiner, to include forensic imaging and the recovery and searching of deleted ESI, to ensure that all relevant discovery has been collected, searched, and produced in this case. Requiring a party to "re-search" its ESI is not an extraordinary remedy uncommon in a case of this magnitude. See Seven Seas Cruises S. De R.L. v. V. Ships Leisure SAM, [2011 BL 420708], 2011 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 19465 , 2011 WL 772855 , at *5 (S.D. Fla. Feb. 19, 2011) (requiring party to "re-search" ESI of custodians with approved search terms with a neutral e-discovery consultant because of deficient search and production), report and recommendation adopted, [2011 BL 420753], 2011 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 19559 , 2011 WL 772902 (S.D. Fla. Feb. 28, 2011); Wynmoor Community Council, Inc. v. QBE Ins. Corp., 280 F.R.D. 681 , 687 (S.D. Fla. Mar. 5, 2012); Nacco, 278 F.R.D. at 406 .\
DE 606, p. 9. The premise here\'97that there is deleted ESI that Procaps does not itself have\'97is not supported by the evidence. That point aside, the reference to Nacco, 278 F.R.D. at 406 , is to the part of the court's opinion where the court sanctioned Lilly because it was negligent in performing its discovery obligations. In this context, the court wrote that "additional discovery in the form of searches for relevant evidence is needed," and sanctioned Lilly to pay the cost of imaging 17 hard drives "because Lilly's deficient preservation and collection efforts necessitated these actions." Id . Procaps has not shown Patheon's preservation and collection efforts to be deficient in the manner that Lilly's efforts were deficient.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 The citation to Seven Seas makes the point made above: if a party has evidence of discovery "defalcations," [2011 BL 420708], 2011 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 19465 , 2011 WL 772855 at *3, the party should bring a Rule 37 motion. In Seven Seas, defendants "conceded that not all relevant requested ESI was produced" and added, "in hindsight, an E-discovery consultant/vendor should have been retained to assist in searching for the responsive electronic information." Id . Defendants also agreed at a hearing before the court "to re-run [*48] the recent searches conducted by the Defendants, and to also run searches on all of the custodians that Plaintiffs complained had never been searched but should have been." Id . In its written opinion following this hearing, the court said, "it is clear that the Defendants have failed to properly conduct complete, thorough and timely searches of ESI responsive to Plaintiff's discovery requests." [2011 BL 420708], 2011 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 19465 , [WL] at *4. As a result, the court concluded that defendants "should be sanctioned pursuant to Rule 37 , for failing to fully cooperate in discovery and make full disclosures." [2011 BL 420708], 2011 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 19465 , [WL] at *5. The court then ordered defendants, located overseas in two different countries, [2011 BL 420708], 2011 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 19465 , [WL] at *3, to utilize a third party vendor to perform searches on defendants' ESI, having explained earlier that defendants' failure in this area "is the result of a lack of familiarity and/or training in searching for and producing ESI," [2011 BL 420708], 2011 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 19465 , [WL] at *4-5, and later explaining, "it appears that Defendants attempted to conduct e-discovery searches by using their own IT department, and belatedly learned that their internal department was not up to the task." [2011 BL 420708], 2011 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 19465 , [WL] at *6. The court also required defendants to pay plaintiffs' attorneys' fees and costs "based upon the Defendants' repeated and continued failure to conduct full and complete ESI searches, as well as Defendants' failure to retain a consultant with the requisite experience and technical knowledge to conduct such searches." Id . \
The court, however, refused to order a "re-search" of ESI previously produced by defendants using a third-party ESI consultant to ensure, as plaintiffs argued, that the prior searches were "complete and performed accurately." [2011 BL 420708], 2011 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 19465 , [WL] at *5. That would not only take too long, the court said, but the evidence showed that the prior "steps taken by Defendants to locate and produce ESI, generally speaking, were reasonable under the circumstances of this case; and, the cost of utilizing more intensive search methods outweighs the potential benefit." [2011 BL 420708], 2011 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 19465 . [WL] at *5, n.5.\
Procaps urges that the facts here are comparable to those in Seven Seas because Patheon failed (1) "to search for and retrieve relevant ESI from Banner Custodians who likely possess(ed) responsive information," (2) "to search Banner's ESI and databases prior to 'integration' for relevant documents;" (3) "to search for relevant documents 'postcollection' using adequate search terms;" and (4) "to search available backup tapes between October 24, 2012 and April/May 2013 for ESI deleted by Mr. Mullen, and possibly other 'key employees' because they did not receive timely litigation holds." DE 606, p. 11.\
But the only similarity between this case and Seven Seas is the court's admonishment of counsel for their failure to communicate and cooperate with each other on e-discovery issues identified in Rule 26(f) . [2011 BL 420708], 2011 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 19465 , 2011 WL 772855 at *4 and *5, n.5. Here we are not dealing with evidence of discovery defalcations. The evidence reflects that Patheon conducted a reasonable search and, unlike in Seven Seas, Patheon's IT Department apparently knew how to collect documents following the interview process that was conducted [*49] here. What Procaps refers to as "gaps" are not gaps at all. Procaps has not identified a particular Banner custodian whose email was not collected, or whose ESI beyond email appears to be missing either because of gaps in dates or gaps in substantive categories of ESI. Patheon imposed limits on production of Banner ESI, and advised Procaps of the limitations. The parties should have discussed search terms, custodians, preservation, backup tapes, and other issues pertinent to e-discovery at the beginning of the case; had they done so their differences could have been addressed without the need for the number of discovery motions filed in this matter and it is likely the Court would not have been confronted with any motions seeking forensic examinations. And as noted above, the time to have pushed Patheon on Mr. Mullen's testimony was after the testimony was given in a meet-and-confer process followed by a motion to compel if needed.\
A forensic examination was not even in issue in Seven Seas. And based on Procaps' four alleged "failures," it is not here either. What may have resulted in further discovery by Patheon had these issues been raised in a Rule 16, Rule 26, or Rule 37 context does not come within the referral to me of the merits of a forensic examination because none of these alleged failures would give rise to a forensic examination under the legal principles articulated in the case law cited by Procaps.\
Procaps also cites Wynmoor to support its plea for a redo of discovery. It writes:\
\pard\pardeftab720\li539\ri539\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Additionally, "forensic images" of ESI are appropriate where, as here, a party (1) has "withheld requested information"; (2) is "unable or unwilling to search for the requested information"; and (3) has not complied with discovery requests. See Wynmoor, 280 F.R.D. at 687 (S.D. Fla. 2012) (ordering forensic exam of plaintiff's computer systems because plaintiffs were "either unwilling or unable to conduct a search of their computer systems for documents responsive to Defendant's discovery requests").\
DE 606, p. 11 (emphasis added).\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Wynmoor, as discussed earlier, is a forensic imaging case where the producing-party plaintiffs were "either unwilling or unable to conduct a search of their computer systems for documents responsive to Defendant's discovery requests." 280 F.R.D. at 687 . Plaintiffs' assistant administrator had testified in a deposition that the hard drive containing electronic copies of maintenance work orders crashed during Hurricane Wilma. No effort had been made to attempt to recover the work order data by plaintiffs even though this information was an important component of the defenses to plaintiffs' claims. Plaintiffs were not helped by evidence of "an unusually large spate of document shredding," so that "there is at least the possibility that hard copy evidence germane to this litigation may have been destroyed that would not otherwise be available to the Defendant absent access to ESI stored in Plaintiffs' computer systems."  Id. at 686 . Nor were Plaintiffs helped by their failure to conduct any searches for ESI: "Plaintiffs have evidently made no efforts to [*50] identify ESI, deleted or otherwise, responsive to Defendant's request for production."  Id. at 686 .\
Procaps may believe that Patheon has withheld requested information, is unable or unwilling to search for information requested, or has not complied with discovery requests, but its beliefs are not enough. The facts of Wynmoor bear no resemblance to the facts here where ESI was searched for and produced, and no credible evidence of missing ESI important to the prosecution of Procaps' claims has been submitted.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Conclusion \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 For the reasons set forth above, I recommend that Procaps' Motion to Compel Forensic Examination of Patheon and Banner's ESI, DE 559, be denied.\
It is also my recommendation that each side bear its own fees and costs in connection with Procaps' motion. Neither side should be rewarded for engaging in discovery "hide-and-seek." Procaps' arguments might have become unnecessary had they confronted Patheon early on with Rule 26(f) issues. From my review of the papers, Patheon's approach to discussion of topics identified in Rule 26(f) and the case law set forth above mirrored Procaps' "go-it-alone" approach. Because the parties discussed so little early, they agreed on even less at the outset, and when that happens cases end up with over 600 docket entries.\
Finally, I have considered and, in the context of the referral, rejected all of Procaps' arguments. To the extent I have not expressly addressed one of them above, it is because I did not feel a need to add further discussion to this already lengthy Report.\
Respectfully Submitted,\
/s/ John M. Barkett\
John M. Barkett, Esq.\
December 1, 2014\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb566\sa1133\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0          
\f0\fs42 General Information\

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 Topic(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Civil Procedure\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Date Filed\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 2014-12-01 00:00:00\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Parties\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 PROCAPS S.A., Plaintiff, v. PATHEON INC., Defendant.\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Court\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 United States District Court for the Southern District of Florida\cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\li674\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\fs20 \cf0 Pagination \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 *
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 BL
\f1\fs24 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\li674\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 United States District Court, N.D. Florida \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 SHELLY OLIVA individually, Plaintiff, v. INFINITE ENERGY, INC., Defendant. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Case No. 1:11-cv-232-MP-GRJ. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 December 24, 2013. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
ORDER [fn1]
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn1] The matter was referred to the undesigned for entry of a final order based upon the consent of the parties. All matters were settled by the parties at mediation except the issue of attorney's fees. Thus, the only issue remaining in the case is the amount of reasonable attorney's fees and costs to be awarded to Plaintiff. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\
Gary R. Jones, Magistrate Judge 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\
This matter is before the Court on Doc. 122, Plaintiff's Motion For Attorney's Fees And Costs.[fn2] Defendant filed a response, Doc. 138,[fn3]and with the Court's permission, Plaintiff filed a reply. Doc. 147. The matter is therefore ripe for review. For the reasons discussed below Plaintiff is entitled to an award of attorney's fees in the sum of $60,512.50, paralegal/law clerk fees in the sum of $747,50, costs and expenses in the sum of $2,178.50 for a total award in the sum of $63,438.50.. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 I. Background
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Plaintiff, who was employed by Infinite Energy as a delinquent account collector, sued her former employer alleging violations of the overtime compensation provision of the Fair Labor Standards Act, 29 U.S.C. \'a7 201 etseq. ("FLSA"). Although the case was a fairly straightforward FLSA case, the primary dispute in the case was whether Plaintiff was exempt from the overtime provisions of the FLSA under the administrative exemption. Further \'97 as is typical in most FLSA cases \'97 the parties disputed the amount of overtime hours to which Plaintiff was entitled compensation, if the Court determined that Plaintiff was not exempt. The issue of whether the Plaintiff was exempt was presented to the Court on motions for summary judgment. The Court found that Plaintiff did not fall within the administrative exemption and that the Defendant is liable for liquidated damages for any overtime compensation that is due. The Court, however, denied summary judgment as to the issue of the amount of hours worked by Plaintiff. The matter was set for trial but before the case was tried the parties reached a full and final settlement of all of the claims (other than attorney's fees and costs). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 While the issues in the case were typical of many FLSA cases, Defendant and Plaintiff vigorously litigated the case without regard to what was at stake. The Defendant, on the one hand, litigated the case fairly aggressively, which caused the Plaintiff to have to engage in more discovery than might have been necessary. Additionally, the Defendant made few, if any, reasonable overtures to resolve the case until well after the Court had entered summary judgment and only about a month before trial. Plaintiff, on the other hand, appears to have expended an inordinate amount of time litigating a case that had a value of about $10,000.00 to $15,000.00. The time expended by Plaintiff's counsel litigating this case was excessive and does not bear a reasonable relationship to what was at stake in the case or the legal issues involved. In determining the amount of attorney's fees that were reasonable and necessary the Court therefore has had to balance between what Plaintiff was required to do because of Defendant's aggressive defense and what was reasonable for Plaintiff's counsel to have done taking into account what was at stake and the legal issues involved. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Plaintiff seeks a total of $306,310 for attorney's fees, $[*2] 2,970 for paralegal fees and costs in the amount of $4,338.95. The amount of attorney's fees sought includes fees of $105,374 though July 28, 2013 plus 49 additional hours, for a total of $122,524, which amount Plaintiff says should be subject to a multiplier of 2.5. In support of the request, Plaintiff submitted an affidavit by its expert, Michael F. Blakey, a member of the Florida, who opines that $295.00 an hour is a reasonable hourly rate for "attorneys in this area" and for an attorney with the knowledge and experience of Plaintiff's counsel. Doc. 124. Mr. Blakey goes on to conclude that with minor exceptions Plaintiff's counsel is entitled to recover for all of the time incurred plus an "upward departure." 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Defendant argues that the award of attorney's fees should be limited to the amount of $11,630.58 and the award of paralegal fees should be limited to $115, because of Plaintiff's limited success and because Plaintiff's claim for attorney's fees is excessive and includes unnecessary time and an unreasonable amount of time for a case like this. In support of Defendant's position, Defendant has filed the affidavit of its expert, Michael P. Spellman, a labor and employment law attorney who has actively practiced in the Northern District of Florida for the past twenty years. Doc. 139-7. Mr. Spellman opines that a reasonable hourly rate for an attorney with the experience and qualifications of Plaintiff's counsel in a case like this should fall within a range of not less than $175.00 per hour to a rate of not more than $215.00 per hour. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 II. DISCUSSION
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Section 216(b) of the FLSA provides for an award of reasonable attorney's fees to the prevailing plaintiff. 29 U.S.C.A. \'a7 216 (West); see Kreager v.Solomon & Flanagan, P.A., 775 F.2d 1541, 1542 (11th Cir. 1985). There is no issue in this case as to plaintiff's status as the prevailing party and, therefore, there is no issue as to entitlement to fees, only as to the amount of those fees. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The determination of a reasonable fee pursuant to \'a7 216(b) lies in the sound discretion of the district court. Kreager, 775 F.2d at 1543. In fee-shifting statutes such as the FLSA, "the lodestar generally is recognized as a reasonable fee." Peet v. C & S Bldg. Maint. Corp., No. 8:07-cv-1762-T-30TGW, [2008 BL 67361], 2008 WL 912431, at *1 (M.D. Fla. Apr. 1, 2008) (citing City of Burlington v. Dague, 505 U.S. 557, 562 (1992)). The Court calculates the "lodestar" by "multiplying the number of hours reasonably expended by a reasonable hourly rate." Norman v. Housing Auth. of City of Montgomery, 836 F.2d 1292, 1299 (11th Cir. 1988). A reasonable hourly rate is defined as "the prevailing market rate in the relevant legal community for similar services by lawyers of reasonably comparable skills, experience, and reputation." Id. In making its determination as to whether the requested amount of fees is "reasonable," the Court also considers such factors as: 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 (1) the time and labor required; (2) the novelty and difficulty of the questions; (3) the skill requisite to perform the legal service properly; (4) the preclusion of other employment by the attorney due to acceptance of the case; (5) the customary fee; (6) whether the fee is fixed or contingent; (7) time limitations imposed by the client or the circumstances; (8) the amount [*3] involved and the result obtained; . . . (10) the "undesirability" of the case; (11) the nature and length of the professional relationship with the client; (12) awards in similar cases.[fn4]
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The lodestar figure \'97 the product of reasonable hours times a reasonable rate \'97 is entitled to a strong presumption of reasonableness, Pennsylvaniav. Del. Valley Citizens' Council for Clean Air, 478 U.S. 546, 565 (1986), although that calculation does not end the inquiry, as other considerations, such as the results obtained, may lead a court to adjust the lodestar. Hensley v. Eckerhart, 461 U.S. 424, 434 (1983). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 A. Reasonable Hourly Rate 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The first part of the lodestar analysis is to determine the reasonable hourly rates for the hours for which the fee applicant is seeking attorney's fees. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 A reasonable hourly rate is the market rate in the relevant legal community for similar services by lawyers of comparable skills, experience, and reputation. Norman 836 F.2d at 1299 (citing Blum v. Stenson, 465 U.S. 886, 895-96 n.11 (1984)). The burden of demonstrating the reasonableness of the requested rate rests with the fee applicant, who must offer satisfactory evidence that the requested rate reflects prevailing market rates. Id. This evidence may include direct evidence of charges by lawyers under similar circumstances or opinion evidence. Id. The weight of such opinion evidence is affected by "the detail contained in the testimony on matters such as similarity of skill, reputation, experience, similarity of case and client, and breadth of the sample of which the expert has knowledge." Id. The Eleventh Circuit has recognized that the Court itself is an expert with regard to the hourly rates charged in the local community.  Id. at 1303. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Plaintiff's counsel seeks $295 per hour for time incurred through the date of his motion and $350 per hour for additional work he anticipates performing after the motion was filed. While Plaintiff has submitted an affidavit from Michael Blakey \'97 who represents his practice involves labor and employment law and that he has represented several employers in FSLA litigation \'97 Mr. Blakey's affidavit provides no detail as to: (1) Mr. Blakey's years of experience or whether he is familiar with the hourly rates charged by attorney's in FLSA cases; (2) the experience of Plaintiff's counsel, or (3) the breadth of his experience with the rates charged by lawyers of similar skill and experience. Moreover, conspicuously absent from Mr. Blakey's affidavit is any information regarding what he means by "what attorney's in this area typically charge for this type of litigation." Doc. 124, \'b6 2. The Court is left to guess as to the area Mr. Blakey is referencing. Similarly, Mr. Blakey's statement that "I know of many fee awards that exceed the rate of $295 per hour" is not informative as to the appropriate hourly rate in the relevant legal community because it fails to inform the Court of the relevant legal market where these awards were made and it does not inform the Court as to the type of cases or even whether the qualifications of the attorneys in those cases bear any similarity to the qualifications and experience of Plaintiff's counsel. [*4] Accordingly, for these reasons, the Court has discounted the opinion of Mr. Blakey as to the amount of a reasonable hourly rate. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 In contrast to the affidavit of Mr. Blakey, the affidavit of Michael Spellman, submitted by Defendant, details Mr. Spellman's more than fifteen years of experience concentrated in the practice of labor and employment law. Notably, Mr. Spellman's experience includes litigating FLSA claims in the Northern District of Florida in both the Tallahassee and Gainesville divisions of the Court. As a partner for more than nine years in two firms specializing in labor and employment law, Mr. Spellman represents that he has personal knowledge of the prevailing hourly rates in this practice area in the geographical areas where his firms have practiced, including Gainesville, Florida and the surrounding region. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Mr. Spellman goes on to conclude that in his opinion in order to qualify for an hourly rate of $295.00 per hour, an attorney would have to have objective qualifications reflecting his preeminence in the area of labor and employment law. According to Mr. Spellman, Plaintiff's counsel does not have the experience or qualifications to justify an hourly rate of $295.00 per hour. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The qualifications and experience of Plaintiff's counsel can be summarized as follows. Plaintiff's counsel began practicing law in 2000 after completing a two year federal judicial clerkship. He practiced with a large regional firm in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania as an associate for approximately ten years. During this time Plaintiff did not specialize in labor or employment law but rather was involved in a "variety of other cases and trials including mass tort, product liability, catastrophic personal injury and wrongful death cases." Doc. 130-7, Ex. B. Plaintiff's counsel worked as an associate with the Gainesville firm of Fisher, Butts, Sechrest & Warner from 2011 until recently when he opened his own firm. It is during this time frame that Plaintiff's counsel concentrated his practice primarily in the labor and employment law area. Thus, while Plaintiff has thirteen years of experience practicing as an attorney only approximately the last two years has he concentrated in the area of labor and employment law and in particular in litigating FLSA claims. To be sure, Plaintiff's counsel is a well qualified attorney but, as Mr. Spellman points out, not an attorney who has achieved preeminence as a specialist in the area of labor and employment law. There is no question that Plaintiff's counsel has experience litigating in federal court and that he possesses good skills. But, in determining what is a reasonable hourly rate the Court must compare Plaintiff's counsel to lawyers of comparable skills, experience and reputation. An attorney who would command an hourly rate of $295.00\'97$350.00 per hour in the North Central Florida legal community would at a minimum have at least ten years experience as a specialist in the area of labor and employment law and not simply ten years of experience as a litigator. Because Plaintiff'[*5] s counsel only recently began to specialize in FLSA cases the Court concludes that the rate requested by Plaintiff's counsel is well above a reasonable hourly rate for a lawyer, who has not achieved preeminence in labor and employment law matters. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 In addition, this Court "is itself an expert on the question and may consider its own knowledge and experience concerning reasonable and proper fees and may form an independent judgment either with or without the aid of witnesses as to value." Norman, 836 F.2d at 1303 (quoting Campbell v. Green, 112 F.2d 143, 144 (5th Cir. 1940)). The Court has the benefit of the assessment by other judges of what is a reasonable hourly rate for lawyers with ten years of experience and for lawyers with less than ten years experience who concentrate their practice litigating FLSA cases. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 For example, in the Middle District of Florida \'97 which includes Orlando and Tampa, cities in which the hourly rate presumably would be higher than Gainesville \'97 judges there have determined that a reasonable hourly rate for the services of attorneys in other FLSA cases, like this one, range from a low of $150.00[fn5] \'97 $160.00[fn6] per hour to a high of $250.00 per hour for an experienced partner with more than ten years of experience litigating FLSA cases.[fn7]
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Accordingly, comparing the reasonable hourly rates for attorneys who have comparable experience to Plaintiff \'97 and based upon the Court's very extensive experience with the hourly rates awarded in the North Central Florida legal market for plaintiff's counsel in successful FLSA cases \'97 the Court concludes that a reasonable hourly rate is the sum of $235.00 per hour. This amount is slightly above the high end of the rate Defendant's expert opined should be awarded and is slightly less than the rate other courts have concluded is a reasonable rate for an attorney with ten years of concentrated experience in litigating FLSA cases. 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 The Court also must briefly address the issue of the reasonable hourly rate for paralegals because Plaintiff has requested paralegal fees in the amount of $2,970, calculated at the rate of $90.00 per hour. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Generally, "[a] prevailing party may be compensated for work done by law clerks or paralegals only to the extent that such work is 'traditionally done by an attorney.'" Miller v. Kenworth of Dothan, Inc., 117 F.Supp.2d 1247, 1258 (M.D. Ala. 2000) (quoting Black v. M.G.A., Inc., 51 F.Supp.2d 1315, 1324 (M.D. Ala. 1999) (quoting Allen v. United StatesSteel Corp., 665 F.2d 689, 697 (5th Cir. Unit B 1982))); see also Jenkins, 491 U.S. at 288, n.10 (1989) ("factual investigation, including locating and interviewing witnesses," among other tasks that might otherwise be performed by a lawyer, may be performed by a paralegal; however, "purely clerical or secretarial tasks should not be billed at a paralegal rate, regardless of who performs them"). Thus, to the extent that the work performed by the law clerks constitutes legal work, and not purely clerical work, Plaintiff is entitled to award for law clerk time. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Plaintiff's attorney, however, has not cited any authority or supplied any facts to justify a rate of $90 per hour in this case. The only case from this district the Court has discovered which addresses a reasonable [*6] hourly rate for law clerks was in a social security case. There the Court accepted $65.00 per hour for law clerk time. Parker v. Astrue, 2010 WL 5396108 at *1 (N.D. Fla. Nov. 23, 2010) report and recommendation adopted, [2010 BL 305522], 2010 WL 5396003 (N.D. Fla. Dec. 23, 2010) Thus, absent sufficient evidence to support the rates sought, the Court will rely on its own expertise in determining a reasonable rate. See Raimondi v. Zakheim & Lavrar, P.A., 2012 WL 1382255 at *6 (M.D. Fla. Apr. 5, 2012) report and recommendation adopted, [2012 BL 179176], 2012 WL 1382221 (M.D. Fla. Apr. 20, 2012). In this case, and based upon the Court's experience with the North Central Florida legal market, the Court concludes that a reasonable hourly rate for law clerk time in Gainesville is $65 per hour. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 B. Reasonable Number of Hours 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The second step in determining the lodestar is to assess the reasonable number of hours expended. Norman, 836 F.2d at 1302. The fee applicant bears the burden of documenting the appropriate number of hours.  Id. at 1303. Proof of the hours dedicated to the litigation and any corresponding objections must be made with sufficient specificity.  Id. at 1301. The Court should exclude hours that are: (1) excessive or otherwise unnecessary; (2) redundant; and (3) spent on discrete and unsuccessful claims.  Id. at 1301-02. Fee applicants must exercise "billing judgment." Hensley, 461 U.S. at 434. Hours that would be unreasonable to bill to a client are unreasonable billed to one's adversary. Id.
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The opponent of a fee application has obligations, too. "In order for courts to carry out their duties in this area, objections and proof from fee opponents concerning hours that should be excluded must be specific and reasonably precise." Am. Civil Liberties Union of Georgia v. Barnes, 168 F.3d 423, 428 (11th Cir. 1999) (quoting Norman, 836 F.2d at 1301) (internal quotations omitted). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Defendant contends that many of plaintiff attorney's billing entries are for unsuccessful, unnecessary, excessive, and non-legal work and are, therefore, not compensable. The Court will address these challenges in turn. 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 1. Frivolous or Unsuccessful Claims and Issues
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Plaintiff has requested 1.2 hour for filing a motion for default. This time is not recoverable since it apparently resulted from a miscalculation of the two-week extension requested by Defendant, and also because the Motion for Default was never filed. See Clayton Williams Energy, Inc. v.Orleans Levee Dist., 2010 WL 1994865 at *2 (E.D. La. Mar. 31, 2010) reportand recommendation adopted, [2010 BL 110149], 2010 WL 1994873 (E.D. La. May 17, 2010) (striking entries for preparation of motion which, although filed, was marked deficient and was never corrected, raising questions about the need for the motion); Monsanto Co. v. Pacificorp, [2006 BL 62228], 2006 WL 1128226 at *9 (D. Idaho Apr. 24, 2006) (excluding from the fee award calculation work and time spent preparing a motion for summary judgment which was not filed). Accordingly, 1.2 hours will be deducted for time spent on this work on 12/5/11 and 12/9/11. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Plaintiff also requests 6 hours for work involving a motion to amend the complaint. This time is not recoverable because the Court concludes there does not seem to have been a sound legal argument for adding the holding company, which [*7] did not exercise control over Infinite Energy or its employees, nor was there a legitimate strategic purpose, since the already-named Defendant was perfectly capable of satisfying a judgment. SeePatel v. Wargo, 803 F.2d 632, 637 (11th Cir. 1986) (finding that holding company is not employer of employee who worked for subsidiary because "[t]here is no suggestion that [holding company] was responsible for the day-to-day operations of [the subsidiary] or had anything to do with the employees of [subsidiary]"). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Accordingly, 6 hours will be deducted for time spent on this work on 5/31/12, 10/26/12, 11/9/12, and 11/13/12. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Defendant also argues that Plaintiff should not be compensated for time involved in litigating the right to jury trial because Plaintiff lost on this issue. The Court disagrees. Although Plaintiff lost on the jury trial demand, Judge Paul, in ruling on Defendant's Motion, noted compelling arguments supporting Plaintiff's position that the jury trial waiver was unenforceable. (Doc. 46 at 21-22.) Thus, the Court concludes that it was necessary for Plaintiff's counsel to oppose the motion and assert arguments, albeit unsuccessfully, in opposition to Defendant's motion to strike the jury trial demand. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 2. Unnecessary and Excessive Work on Attorney's Fees
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Plaintiff has requested 6.6 hours of time spent amending the attorney time records filed in the case. This time is not compensable because it was the result of counsel's failure to comply with the requirements of the scheduling order. Time spent curing counsel's errors would not ordinarily be billed to a client. Accordingly, 6.6 hours will be deducted for time spent on this work on 5/8/13, 5/10/13, 5/12/13, 5/13/13, and 5/14/13. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Plaintiff requests 1.7 hours for filing attorney time records. These entries are not compensable because the work described (e.g., "prepare notice of filing time records for April") is essentially administrative in nature. See Machado v. Da Vittorio, LLC, [2010 BL 170404], 2010 WL 2949618, at *3 (S.D. Fla. 2010) ("[w]ork performed 'which can often be accomplished by non-lawyers but which a lawyer may do because he has no other help available' is not compensable at a lawyer's rate solely 'because a lawyer does it.'") (quoting Johnson v. Ga. Hwy. Express, Inc., 488 F.2d 714, 717 (5th Cir. 1974)). 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Accordingly, 1.7 hours will be deducted for time spent on this work. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Defendants also challenge the time Plaintiff's counsel spent preparing his affidavit in support of the fee petition. Prevailing plaintiffs are generally entitled to the time spent preparing fee petitions. Kennedy v.Avondale Estates, Georgia, [2007 BL 110587], 2007 WL 842125 at *3 (N.D. Ga. Mar. 15, 2007); see Jean v. Nelson, 863 F.2d 759, 780 (11th Cir. 1988) aff'd sub nom.Comm'r, I.N.S. v. Jean, 496 U.S. 154 (1990) ("This court has already indicated that attorney's fees incurred defending an EAJA award on appeal, or appealing a denial of EAJA fees, are recoverable as part of the final fee award.") (citing Hudson v. Secretary of Health and Human Services, 839 F.2d 1453, 1458 n.7 (11th Cir. 1988)); McKelvy v. Metal Container Corp., 125 F.R.D. 179, 184 (M.D. Fla. 1989) ("[A]n award of "fees for fees" in an age discrimination suit is plainly allowable."). The affidavit of Plaintiff's counsel was essential to his fee petition, and therefore Plaintiff [*8] is entitled to recover the time spent preparing the affidavit. The Court, however, finds that 5.5 hours to prepare the affidavit was excessive and therefore will reduce the time by 2 hours. The same reasoning applies to the time spent preparing the affidavit of Michael Blakey. The Court, therefore will reduce this time by 2 hours. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Plaintiff also claims 44.2 hours for researching a multitude of issues regarding the request for attorney's fees. Although Plaintiff is entitled to fees for researching and preparing the fee petition, 44.2 hours is excessive. Fee petitions in FLSA cases are fairly standard and normally do not require this amount of time. The Court, therefore, concludes that 15 hours in total is reasonable and therefore Plaintiff's fee award will be reduced by 29.2 hours. 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 3. Unnecessary and Redundant Depositions
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Plaintiff took a total of 18 depositions, although she only used 4 of the depositions in her motion for summary judgment. In addition Plaintiff took 5 depositions after the close of discovery related to Defendant's records. Neither the number of depositions of Plaintiff's co-workers nor the hours spent in preparation for the individual depositions, which presumably covered much the same ground, has been justified by the Plaintiff's attorney. Although Plaintiff's counsel states that he inquired of Defendant which of Plaintiff's co-workers identified in Defendant's initial disclosures they intended to call at trial as a witness and was told potentially "all of them," such a statement at an early stage of the litigation is not the equivalent of a witness list for trial and does not provide the same impetus for plaintiff to obtain each individual's testimony. See Maris Distrib. Co. v. Anheuser-Busch, Inc., 302 F.3d 1207, 1225 (11th Cir. 2002) (holding that district court did not abuse its discretion in awarding deposition-related costs because all of the contested depositions were of individuals on opponent's witness list). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 While the Court concludes that certainly some of these depositions were appropriate, it was not necessary in this case to depose all of the employee \'97 witnesses. Accordingly, the Court concludes that of the 26 hours claimed the award should be reduced by 10 hours. Sixteen hours to prepare for and conduct the necessary depositions in this case should have been more than sufficient. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 4. Excessive Review of Discovery Documents
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Defendant challenges a multitude of time entries all of which relate to reviewing discovery documents. Plaintiff's request for 43 hours is clearly excessive. In addition, the entries in question are not generally descriptive enough to determine the total volume of documents reviewed and, therefore, whether the time spent reviewing them was appropriate. It appears that Plaintiff's attorney reviewed at least 4,000 pages of documents. This number is based on the descriptions of the contents of individual disks in Defendant's document production as containing approximately 1,000 pages, and is based upon the fact that it appears the Defendant produced at least four disks. [*9] The generally accepted rule is that associate-level document review can be effectively conducted at a rate of fifty 10-page documents per hour. See TheSedona Conference Best Practices Commentary on the Use of Search andInformation Retrieval Methods in E-Discovery August 2007 Public CommentVersion, 8 Sedona Conf. J. 189, 198 n.13 (2007); see also Richard L. Marcus, The Perils of Privilege: Waiver and the Litigator, 84 Mich. L. Rev. 1605, 1610 (1986), (noting that 500 pages per hour would be a high rate of speed for privilege review where documents were particularly difficult to screen for privilege (quotations omitted)). Thus, assuming 500 pages per hour, Plaintiff's attorney is entitled to be compensated for at least 8 hours of review, but certainly not the 43 hours requested. Accordingly, 35 hours will be deducted from the time requested for review of discovery documents. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 5. Other Unnecessary, Excessive, and Non-Legal Work
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Defendant also challenges a number of individual time entries because the time either involved unnecessary or excessive work or involved non-legal work. The Court will address each of the challenged time entries in turn. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 11/2/11 \'97 .2 hours ("Review email regarding job posting for client's job and posting itself") 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 The Court concludes that Plaintiff is not entitled to an award for this time because Plaintiff's counsel has not explained in sufficient detail the relationship of this activity to his representation of Plaintiff, nor is that relationship apparent on its face. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 1/4/12 \'97 .1 hours ("Review notice re: 7.1") 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 This time is not compensable because reviewing the electronic notice of the filing is either entirely unnecessary or at least non-legal in nature. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 3/8/12 \'97 .2 hours ("Review mediation report and invoice for mediation") 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Plaintiff is not entitled to this time because at a minimum, time spent reviewing the invoice is non-legal work. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 3/27/12 \'97 .3 hours ("Reviewed notices of deposition") 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The Court concludes that reviewing notices of deposition constitutes clerical work that is not compensable in a fee petition. Thus,.3 hours will be deducted from the fee award. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 3/29/12 \'97 .3 hours ("Prepare 4 notices of depositions for defendant's witnesses") 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Preparing, as opposed to simply reviewing notices of deposition constitutes legal work and therefore will be included in the fee award. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 3/26/12 \'97 2.2 hours ("Met with the Olivas to prepare them for their depositions") 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Plaintiff's counsel was required to meet with and prepare his client and her husband for their depositions. Accordingly, the Court concludes that the hours billed for this time was reasonable and necessary. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 5/11/12 \'97 .4 hours ("Telephone conference client re: [redacted] records and need to meet face to face") 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 This time entry does not appear excessive and therefore the Court will include this time in the fee award. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 5/11/12 \'97 .3 hours ("Review Answer and affirmative defenses for purposes of responding to Defendant's threat to seek bench trial") 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Although Plaintiff did not prevail on the issue of whether she was entitled to a jury trial, it was not unreasonable to review the answer and affirmative defenses [*10] again. The fact that a party does not prevail on an issue does not render the time spent uncompensable. The law is clear that, while time spent on "discrete and unsuccessful claims" is not compensable, Duckworth v. Whisenant, 97 F.3d 1393, 1397 (11th Cir. 1996), time spent on all claims that arise out of the same course of conduct and share a "common core of fact" is, even if a specific individual claim did not succeed. Hensley, 461 U.S. at 435; Davis v. Locke, 936 F.2d 1208, 1214 (11th Cir. 1991); Jean v. Nelson, 863 F.2d 759, 771 (11th Cir. 1988); Popham v. City of Kennesaw, 820 F.2d 1570, 1578 (11th Cir. 1987); Military Circle Pet Ctr. No. 94 v. Cobb County, 734 F.Supp. 502, 504 (N.D. Ga. 1990). 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 5/24/12 \'97 .2 hours ("Discussed tax information with client including annual income") 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 In the absence of any explanation why Plaintiff's tax information was relevant to this case, this entry will be deducted from the fee award. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 10/23/12 [Should be 10/22/12] \'97 .2 hours ("Researched contact information for A. Sutton [potential witness]") 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The Court concludes that this time is compensable. While researching an individual's contact information certainly appears at first blush to be clerical work, the Supreme Court in Missouri v. Jenkins, 491 U.S. 274, 288, n.10 (1989), noted that "factual investigation, including locating . . . witnesses" is among the tasks that are compensable as paralegal work, since this "might otherwise be performed by a lawyer and billed at a higher rate." 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 11/13/12 \'97 .1 hours ("Review notice re: motion to amend complaint") 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Reviewing the electronic filing notice is non-legal work and thus this time is not compensable. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 11/14/12 \'97 .1 hours ("Review notice re: motion for extension of time") 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 This time is non-legal and thus not compensable. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 4/4/13 \'97 .2 hours ("Telephone call to clerk re: marking exhibits") 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 This time is not compensable because it is clerical or the type of charge a lawyer would not include in a legal bill. This charge will be deducted from the fee award. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 4/5/13 \'97 1.5 hours ("Met with law clerks and discussed preparation for trial") 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 To the extent this time represents trial preparation time the Court concludes that it is compensable. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 4/8/13 \'97 .1 hours ("Review notice re: our filings from Friday") 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Reviewing the electronic filing notice is non-legal work and therefore not compensable. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 4/8/13 \'97 .2 hours ("Review docket for IE's filings") 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 In the absence of any further detail or explanation for this entry the time will be deducted from the fee award. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 5/23/13 \'97 .2 hours ("E-mail from/to client's husband re: Notice of Hearing re: settlement") 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 This entry appears to be reasonable and not excessive and therefore will be included in the fee award. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 1/3/13 \'97 .2 hours ("Review Notice of Withdrawal") 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Reviewing the notice is non-legal work and therefore not compensable. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 1/3/13 \'97 .1 hours ("Review Notice re: action requires on Notice of Withdrawal and review local rules re: need for meeting of counsel.") 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 This same rationale applies to this entry. It will not be included in the fee award. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 1/4/13 \'97 .1 hours ("Review notice of Withdrawal") 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 This entry is duplicative of the nearly identical entry from the day before, and constitutes non-legal work. The time will not be included in the fee award. 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 3/27/13 \'97 5 hours ("Review file in preparation for meeting with Def's attorney") 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 While it is reasonable for counsel to have spent time [*11] reviewing the file to prepare for the meeting with Defendant's attorney, five hours is excessive. This time will be reduced by 3 hours so that Plaintiff will be compensated for 2 hours. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 5/3/13 \'97 5 hours ("Review file in preparation for settlement conference") 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Although counsel was required to review the file to prepare for the settlement conference five hours was more than excessive. Accordingly, 4.0 hours will be deducted from the time requested for this work 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 6. Unnecessary and Redundant Legal Research
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 5/31/12 \'97 1.5 hours ("Researched how holiday pay is treated for FLSA purposes") 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The treatment of holiday pay under the FLSA was not an issue in this case and therefore this time will not be included in the fee award. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 11/14/12 \'97 2 hours ("Continued research re: barring defendant from using records re: phone calls and Verint log ins to establish hours plaintiff worked based on failure to keep proper time") 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Research regarding whether Defendant's records should be excluded is not compensable because in the Court's summary judgment order the Court rejected Plaintiff's argument that Defendant's records cannot be used by the court in estimating overtime hours worked. Doc. 46 at 15-16. This time is therefore not included in the award. 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 4/10/13 \'97 1.8 hours ("Researched whether it is improper to bring IE's withdrawal of settlement offer to court's attention") 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The Court is unaware of any reason this research was necessary and therefore the time is not included in the fee award. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 4/23/13 \'97 .5 hours ("Researched who could be individually liable in connection with this action") 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 This time is not included in the fee award because a prior motion to add a party had already been denied as untimely (Doc. 62 at 2) and there was no further motion filed. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 4/23/13 \'97 .2 hours ("Researched whether it is too late to amend to add individual directors of corporation") 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 This research was unnecessary and therefore is not included in the fee award. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 5/7/13 \'97 2 hours ("Additional research re: inapplicability of half-time damages calculation based in misclassification for purposes of preparing for settlement conference and preparing brief requested by Court") 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 In view of the fact Plaintiff's attorney already spent two hours researching this issue in April, two hours additional hours on the same issue is excessive and unnecessary. The time will not be included in the fee award. 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 7. 50 Additional Hours at an Hourly Rate of $350
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 For the reasons discussed above, the Court concludes that a reasonable hourly rate for Plaintiff's attorney should not exceed $235 per hour. The fact that Plaintiff's counsel has increased his billing rate does not change the determination of a reasonable rate for his services. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Plaintiff's attorney requests 30 additional hours for litigating the issue of attorney's fees. As discussed above, Plaintiff is entitled to "fees for fees." Sheet Metal Workers Int'l Ass'n Local 15, AFL-CIO v. Law Fabrication,LLC, 237 Fed. Appx. 543, 550 (11th Cir. 2007) ("federal statutory fee-shifting provisions ordinarily authorize fees on fees"); see Martin v.University of South Alabama, 911 F.2d 604, 610 (11th Cir. 1990) ("It is well settled that time expended [*12] litigating attorney fees is fully compensable."). However, the Court concludes that 10 hours total represents a reasonable amount of time for litigating the fee petition. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Plaintiff's attorney also seeks 15 hours for reviewing and redacting phone records. This amount is excessive \'97 the time required for this task could have been performed by plaintiff herself or by a non-lawyer employee. This amount will not be included in the fee award. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Finally, Plaintiff's attorney also seeks four hours for filing for approval of the settlement and related matters. The Court concludes that 2 hours should have been more than sufficient time to complete this task. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 8. Paralegal Time
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Plaintiff claims 33 hours for services performed by law clerks. The law clerks are identified as University of Florida law students. As discussed above, "[a] prevailing party may be compensated for work done by law clerks or paralegals only to the extent that such work is 'traditionally done by an attorney.'" Miller, 117 F.Supp.2d 1247, 1258. The court has reviewed the time entries for law clerks and determines that 21.5 hours will not be allowed because the time does not involve work traditionally performed by an attorney or it involved work that the Court determined was unnecessary or redundant even if the work had been performed by an attorney.[fn8] Thus, Plaintiff is entitled to an award for 11.5 hours of time performed by law clerks at a rate of $65.00 per hour for a total of $747.50. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 C. Adjustment of the Lodestar 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Having determined both components of the lodestar, the Court still must consider whether an adjustment to the lodestar should be made for the results obtained. Norman, 836 F.2d at 1302. "If the result was excellent, then the court should compensate for all hours reasonably expended." Id.However, even if the results obtained are exceptional, upward adjustment is not appropriate unless there is specific evidence in the record to show that the quality of representation was superior to that which one would reasonably expect in light of the rates claimed. Blum, 465 U.S. at 899(1984). Conversely, if the result was partial or counsel obtained only limited success, then the lodestar "must be reduced to an amount that is not excessive." Id.
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 In making the above determination, the court is guided by the twelve factors set out in Johnson, 488 F.2d at 717-19 (5th Cir. 1974), and approved in Blanchard v. Bergeron, 489 U.S. 87, 91-92 (1989). These factors are: (1) the time and labor required; (2) the novelty and difficulty of the questions; (3) the skill required to perform the legal services properly; (4) the preclusion of other employment by the attorney due to acceptance of the case; (5) the customary fee in the community; (6) whether the fee is fixed or contingent; (7) time limitations imposed by the client or circumstances; (8) the amount involved and the results obtained; (9) the experience, reputation, and ability of the attorneys; (10) the "undesirability" of the case; (11) the nature and length of the professional relationship with the client; and (12) awards in similar cases. Wright v. Holifield, [2013 BL 6070], 2013 WL 105768 at *2 (S.D. Ala. Jan. 9, 2013). While the district court may consider these factors, it is not required [*13] to, as the Supreme Court has recognized that many of the twelve Johnson factors are subsumed within the calculation of hours expended and the hourly rate. Delaware Valley Citizens'Council I, 478 U.S. at 564. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Plaintiff's attorney requests a multiplier of 2.5, while Defendant proposes a 67% reduction in the lodestar figure. In this case, the Johnsonfactors are, for the most part, either already accounted for in the determination of a reasonable rate, or else their consideration does not compel an adjustment in either direction. This was a straightforward FLSA misclassification case, and the results obtained were not exceptional. Although Plaintiff's counsel represented his client ably and with skill, there is nothing to evidence that the quality of representation was superior to what would be expected in light of the hourly rate of Plaintiff's counsel. Thus, no upward adjustment is warranted. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 In support of its position that a downward adjustment is appropriate, Defendant points to the inclusion of many billing entries with which it already has taken issue as excessive, unnecessary, or redundant, as well as those entries related to issues Defendant contends are unrelated to the FLSA claim. These objections, however, have already been addressed, and those entries determined to be excessive, unnecessary, or redundant have not been included in the fee award. Moreover, Defendant cites no authority supporting a reduction of the lodestar for the inclusion of excessive billing entries in the requested fee. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Defendant also argues that a reduction is appropriate given "Plaintiff's limited success," citing several cases in which courts reduced the lodestar figure in FLSA cases on this basis. Each of the cases cited by Defendant, however, involved either a much more limited success than the recovery that was obtained in this case, or else involved a lodestar figure that was a far greater multiple of the recovery. While a recovery of 27% of the original demand clearly does not warrant an upward adjustment of the lodestar, neither is it so limited or minimal as to justify a downward adjustment. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Defendant also suggests that a reduction of the lodestar is appropriate to "more closely align the attorney's fees awarded to the level of success Plaintiff received," proposing a maximum award approximately equal to the settlement amount. "Given the nature of claims under the FLSA and the remedial purpose of the Act, however, it is not uncommon that the attorneys' fees will exceed the amount recovered by the plaintiff." Pyczynski v.Kirkland's Stores, Inc., [2008 BL 38307], 2008 WL 544864 at *5 (M.D. Fla. Feb. 26, 2008). Thus, it would be improper to reduce the fee solely so the fees more closely matched the result. 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 D. Costs And Expenses
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The FLSA provides for an award of "costs of the action" to a prevailing plaintiff. 29 U.S.C. \'a7 216(b). Courts may award as costs those expenses permitted by 28 U.S.C. \'a7 1920; see Glenn v. Gen. Motors Corp., 841 F.2d 1567, 1575 (11th Cir. 1988). Defendant objects to Plaintiff attorney's costs for depositions taken but not used by Plaintiff in support of a motion. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Taxation of deposition costs is authorized by [*14] \'a7 1920(2). See United Statesv. Kolesar, 313 F.2d 835, 837-38 (5th Cir. 1963) ("Though 1920(2) does not specifically mention a deposition, . . . depositions are included by implication in the phrase 'stenographic transcript.'"). Whether deposition costs are taxable turns on whether the deposition was wholly or partially "'necessarily obtained for use in the case.'" E.E.O.C. v. W&O, Inc., 213 F.3d 600, 621 (11th Cir. 2000) (quoting Newman v. A.E. Staley Mfg. Co., 648 F.2d 330, 337 (5th Cir. Unit B 1981) (quoting \'a7 1920(2))). The necessity for a deposition "is not alone measured by whether all or any part of its is formally offered in evidence as such." Kolesar, 313 F.2d at 840. However, the use to which a deposition is put tends to show whether it was or was not necessarily obtained. E.E.O.C., 213 F.3d at 621. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 While each of the depositions may have been "related to an issue which was present in the case at the time the deposition was taken" (E.E.O.C., 213 F.3d at 621) (quoting Independence Tube Corp., 543 F.Supp. at 718)), the fact of the matter is that only the depositions of Robert Thomas, Terrill Staton, Thomas McDonald, Vivian Boza and the Plaintiff were actually used as part of Plaintiff's summary judgment motion. Thus, the cost of these depositions used in Plaintiff's motion for summary judgment will be included as recoverable costs because those depositions were necessarily obtained for use in the case. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 As to Defendant's objections to Plaintiff's costs for "Unspecified legal research" and "Miscellaneous," those costs clearly fall outside the expenses permitted by 28 U.S.C. \'a7 1920. Thus, Plaintiff is not entitled to the costs associated with mediation, parking, and Accurint. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Lastly, Plaintiff's request for nontaxable costs in the amount of$437.75 representing expenses by attorneys and paralegals for travel are not recoverable and therefore are denied. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 III. CONCLUSION
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 For the foregoing reasons, the Court concludes that Plaintiff is entitled to an award of fees and costs calculated as follows: 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 A. Fees
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Plaintiff claims 354.2 hours through the filing of the fee petition and an additional 49 hours for work related to the fee petition and finalizing settlement. The Court has determined that 108.70 hours should be deducted for unnecessary, excessive or redundant work, thus resulting in 245.50 hours that were reasonable and necessary to litigate this case through the date of the fee petition. Additionally, the Court concludes that Plaintiff is entitled to an additional 12 hours for work related to the fee petition and finalizing settlement for a total of 257.50 hours. Plaintiff is therefore entitled to an attorney's fee award in the sum of $60,512.50, representing 257.50 hours at the hourly rate of $235.00 per hour. Plaintiff is also entitled to an award for paralegal/law clerk fees in the sum of $747.50, representing 11.5 hours of work at the rate of $65.00 per hour. 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 B. Costs
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Plaintiff is entitled to a an award of costs in the sum of $2178.50, representing the filing fee ($350.00); service of process fee ($40.00), the deposition of Thomas McDonald ($60.00 attendance fee, transcript fee $326.50); deposition of Terrill Staton ($60.00 attendance fee, transcript fee $432.25); deposition of Robert Thomas ($60.00 attendance fee, transcript fee $451.25); deposition of Vivian [*15] Boza ($60.00 attendance fee, transcript fee $159.75) and the transcript fee for the Plaintiff ($178.75). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Accordingly, upon due consideration, it is ORDERED: 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 1. Plaintiff's Motion For Attorney's Fees And Costs, Doc. 122, is GRANTED as detailed in this Order. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 2. Plaintiff, Shelly Oliva, shall recover from Defendant, Infinite Energy, Inc. attorney's fees in the sum of $60,512.50, paralegal/law clerk fees in the sum of $747.50, costs in the sum of $2,178.50 for a total of $63,438.50. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 3. Pursuant to the Court's June 12, 2013 Order, Doc. 94, the Clerk is directed to refer this case back to the Honorable Maurice M. Paul for entry of a final judgment covering all aspects of the case. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 DONE AND ORDERED. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn2] Plaintiff also has filed a memorandum of law in support of the motion for attorney's fees and costs, Doc. 123, and three affidavits. Docs. 124, 125 and 126. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn3] Defendant also filed two affidavits and other supporting documents. Doc. 139. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn4] Kreager, 775 F.2d at 1544 n.2 (citing Johnson v. Ga. Hwy. Express,Inc., 488 F.2d 714, 717-19 (5th Cir. 1974)). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn5] Kirby v. JK Lockw ood Constr. Co., Inc., No. 8:07-cv-1505-T-17TGW, [2008 BL 207615], 2008 WL 4298214, at *2 (M.D. Fla. Sep. 16, 2008) (J. Kovachevich adopting R& R by J. Wilson) (requested hourly rate reduced from $300.00 to $150.00 in an FLSA case); Wallace v. The Kiwi Group, Inc., 247 F.R.D. 679, 685 (M.D. Fla. 2008) (J. Antoon adopting R& R by J. Spaulding)($300.00 per hour request reduced to $150.00 per hour); Hill v. Chequered Flag Auto Sales, Inc., No. 6:05-cv-1597-ORL-18KRS, [2007 BL 229828], 2007 WL 710139, at *3 (M.D. Fla. Mar. 6, 2007) (J. Sharp adopting R& R by J. Spaulding)($225.00 per hour request reduced to $150.00 per hour). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn6] Hill v. Windsor Redev. Corp., No. 8:08-cv-19-JDW-TGW, 2008 WL 2421105, at *2 (M.D. Fla. June 13, 2008) (J. Whittemore); Reboucas v. LCM Inv. Group, No. 6:08-cv-280-ORL-28KRS, [2008 BL 294569], 2008 WL 4080211 (M.D. Fla. Aug. 28, 2008) (J. Spaulding)($250.00 per hour request reduced to $160.00 per hour); Dial v.Little Wagon Errand Servs., Inc., No. 6:07-cv-1072-ORL-28KRS, [2008 BL 14852], 2008 WL 227967, at *4 (M.D. Fla. Jan. 25, 2008) (J. Antoon adopting R& R by J. Spaulding(reducing $300.00 per hour request to $160.00 per hour); King v.FSA Netw ork, Inc., No. 6:07-cv-78-ORL-22JGG, [2007 BL 129482], 2007 WL 3072262, at *3 (M.D. Fla. Oct. 19, 2007) (J. Conw ay adopting R& R by J. Glazebrook) (" Although [the attorney] has substantial experience in FLSA cases, these cases typically are not complex and do not require a high degree of skill to represent the plaintiff . . . The Court finds that a rate of $160/hour is a reasonable hourly rate . . ."). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn7] Sw isher v. The Finishing Line, Inc., No. 6:07-cv-1542-ORL-28UAM, [2008 BL 212127], 2008 WL 4330318, at *7 (M.D. Fla. Sept. 22, 2008) (J. Antoon adopting R& R by J. Kelly); Hill v. Chequered Flag Auto Sales, Inc., [2007 BL 229828], 2007 WL 710139, at *3; Salerno v. Bouchelle Island Dev. Corp., No. 6:05-cv-1841-ORL-31DAB, [2007 BL 217011], 2007 WL 113983, at *2 (M.D. Fla. Jan. 10, 2007) (J. Presnell adopting R& R by J. Baker). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn8] The following time entries were excluded form the award: 1.0 hr. \'97 3/15/13; 2.0 hr. \'97 3/24/13;.5 hr. \'97 2/25/13;.5 hr. \'97 4/5/13; 1.0 hr. \'97 4/5/13; 3.0 hr. \'97 4/8/13; 1.0 hr. \'97 4/11/13; 3.0 hr. \'97 4/11/13; 1.5 hr. \'97 4/12/13; 2.0 hr. \'97 4/12/13; 1.0 hr. \'97 4/15/13; 2.0 hr. \'97 4/18/13; 1.0 hr. \'97 5/3/13; 2.0 hr. \'97 5/4/13. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb566\sa1133\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0          
\f0\fs42 General Information\

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 Judge(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Gary R. Jones\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Related Docket(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 1:11-cv-00232 (N.D. Fla.);\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Topic(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Labor Law; Damages & Remedies\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Date Filed\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 2013-12-24 00:00:00\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Parties\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 SHELLY OLIVA individually, Plaintiff, v. INFINITE ENERGY, INC., Defendant.\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Case Type\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 SO\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Court\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 United States District Court for the Northern District of Florida\cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\li674\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\fs20 \cf0 Pagination \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 *
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 BL
\f1\fs24 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\li674\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 United States District Court, M.D. Florida \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 INDEPENDENT MARKETING GROUP, INC., a Florida corporation, Plaintiff, vs. JERRY KEEN, an individual; BRIAN J. KEEN, an individual and WILLIAM MEGNA, an individual, Defendants. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Case No. 3:11-cv-447-J-25MCR. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 January 24, 2012. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
MONTE C. RICHARDSON, UNITED STATES MAGISTRATE JUDGE. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\
ORDER 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\
THIS CAUSE is before the Court on Defendants' Motion to Compel Production of Documents (Doc. 38) filed December 23, 2011. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 I. BACKGROUND
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 On May 5, 2011, Plaintiff Independent Marketing Group, Inc. filed the instant action alleging six counts against Defendant Brian Keen for breach of fiduciary duties, tortious interference with business relationships, fraud, breach of contract, conversion, and replevin, and two counts against Defendant Jerry Keen for breach of fiduciary duty and fraud. (Doc. 2). The Complaint also brings one count against Defendant William Megna for legal malpractice. ( Id.). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 On September 6, 2011, Defendants served their First Request for Production of Documents on Plaintiff, seeking an array of Electronically Stored Information ("ESI"). In response, Plaintiff produced a limited number of documents compiled into one PDF file that lacked any metadata or any searchable text. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 On October 14, 2011, Defendants sent a letter requesting that Plaintiff make a reasonably diligent search for relevant, responsive documents and supplement its response within 10 days.[fn1] See (Doc. 38-H). On October 27, 2011, Plaintiff sent Defendants a computer disk containing four poor quality PDF files, each consisting of hundreds of pages. Again, these files lacked any metadata or any searchable text. See (Doc. 38-I). Defendants contacted Plaintiff expressing issues with the format of its production. See (Doc. 38-K, L). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 On November 28, 20011, Plaintiff responded and stated that the third-party vendor it selected to produce and process the documents was "unable to produce the documents" and thus, it is using another vendor which should have "a very quick turnaround time." See (Doc. 38-M). Then, on December 1, 2011, Plaintiff stated that it was now refusing to produce documents in a different format because the estimated costs of $10,000 to do so is "a prohibitive cost that [Plaintiff] [is] not willing to incur for the production of the documents [Defendants] requested." See (Doc. 38-B). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 On December 2, 2011, the parties spoke regarding production and Plaintiff offered to provide Defendants with computer disks that were provided by the original vendor who was unable to produce the documents. Defendants agreed to review the discs to determine if they were sufficient. On December 20, 2011, Defendants received and reviewed the disks. Upon review, Defendants determined that the disks contained unusable files, many of which did not contain any information at all or could not be opened.[fn2]
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Defendants attempted to contact Plaintiff regarding the production deficiencies, but did not receive a response. See (Doc. 38-N, O). Thus, on December 23, 2011, Defendants filed the instant Motion to Compel Production of Documents requesting [*2] the Court compel Plaintiff to produce the ESI in a reasonably usable format. (Doc. 38). On January 6, 2012, Plaintiff filed its response in opposition to Defendants' Motion claiming that the production requested would be exceedingly burdensome. (Doc. 40). Accordingly, this matter is now ripe for judicial review. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 II. ANALYSIS
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 37(a)(2)(B) provides that when a party fails to permit inspection of documents as required under Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 34, the discovering party may move for an order compelling inspection in accordance with the request. Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 34 requires that when a request does not specify a form to produce ESI,[fn3]it must be produced in a "form or forms in which it is ordinarily maintained or in a reasonably usable form or forms." Fed.R.Civ.P. 34(b)(2)(E)(ii). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Here, while Plaintiff's responsive documents are kept on its server, it produced large PDF files lacking metadata and searchable text. As it appears that the documents were printed off the server and then scanned back into a digital format as PDF files, these documents were not produced as ordinarily kept.[fn4] See Bray & Gillespie Mgmt. LLC v. Lexington Ins. Co., 259 F.R.D. 568, 585-586 (M.D. Fla. 2009) (documents kept on a computer and gathered electronically by creating files without metadata "for the sole purpose of producing them" is not "ESI as kept in the usual course of business"). Similarly, Plaintiff failed to produce the ESI in a reasonably usable form or forms.[fn5] Id. (finding that ESI was not produced in a reasonably usable form when the form that it was produced in "eliminated the search capabilities that would have been available if [it] had [been] produced ESI in native format"). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Plaintiff argues that it is not required to produce the ESI in the format Defendants suggest because of undue burden and cost. (Doc. 40). The Federal Rules maintain a presumption that parties are required to satisfy their own costs in responding to discovery requests. Oppenheimer Fund. Inc. v.Sanders, 437 U.S. 340 (1978). Exceptions allowing for electronic discovery costs to be shifted only apply where the responding party identifies the source of the requested documents "as not reasonably accessible because of undue burden or cost." Fed.R.Civ.P. 26(b)(2)(B); U & I Corp. v. Advanced Med. Design, Inc., 251 F.R.D. 667, 674(M.D. Fla. 2008). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Here, Plaintiff has never contended that the information Defendants seek is not accessible. "Inaccessible" data is generally stored on backup tapes and erased, as well as fragmented or damaged data, all of which require significant manipulation and reconstruction to become usable for responding to discovery requests. Id. To the contrary, Plaintiff identified its own computer server as the location for responsive documents in its Initial Disclosures. See (Doc. 38-A). Thus, it cannot contend that the information contained on those servers is inaccessible. Additionally, Defendants have stipulated that they are only requesting "reasonably accessible information," and they are not requesting any deleted items. See (Doc. 38-H). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Even assuming arguendo that Plaintiff has demonstrated that the cost of producing the [*3] documents in the format requested is due to inaccessibility, "the [C]ourt may nevertheless order discovery from such sources if the requesting party shows good cause." U & I Corp., 251 F.R.D. at 674. In deciding whether to compel a party to produce documents in the appropriate format, various factors should be considered, including (i) whether the burden or expense of the proposed discovery outweighs the likely benefit; (ii) the needs of the case, the amount in controversy, the parties' resources; (iii) the importance of the issues at stake in the litigation; and (iv) the importance of the proposed discovery in resolving the issues. Id. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 First, the Court finds that the burden and expense Plaintiff will incur is outweighed by the benefit Defendants will receive in their ability to review documents that may be relevant to their defenses. Indeed, it was Plaintiff that identified its computer server as the location of responsive documents. See (Doc. 38-A). Second, this case is claimed to be worth many hundreds of thousands of dollars, in addition to potential punitive damages and attorneys' fees. Plaintiff is a corporation, likely with substantial resources, while this lawsuit was brought against three individual Defendants. Finally, Plaintiff's refusal to produce documents in an appropriate and usable format creates a significant disadvantage and prohibits Defendants from potentially discovering information that may be relevant to their defenses. Therefore, Plaintiff is directed to search its system for all responsive files using the relevant search terms and produce the results to Defendants in a usable format as the documents are kept and used in the normal course of business. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Defendants seek an award of attorneys' fees in making this motion. (Doc. 38, pp. 15-16). The court "has wide latitude in imposing sanctions for failure to comply with discovery." Aziz v. Wright, 34 F.3d 587, 589 (8th Cir. 1994). Where the producing party's actions necessitate the motion to compel, or where the objections and failure to respond are not substantially justified, an award of sanctions is appropriate. Starcher v. Corr. Med.Sys., Inc., 144 F.3d 418, 421-22 (6th Cir. 1998). Further, a party against whom a motion to compel is enforced may only avoid payment of sanctions by demonstrating that his position is substantially justified. Rickels v. Cityof South Bend, 33 F.3d 785, 787 (7th Cir. 1994). A "motion is substantially justified if it raises an issue about which there is a genuine dispute, or if reasonable people could differ as to the appropriateness of the contested action." Doe v. Lexington-FayetteUrban County Gov't, 407 F.3d 755, 766 (6th Cir. 2005) (citing Pierce v.Underwood, 487 U.S. 552, 565, 108 S. Ct. 2541, 101 L. Ed. 2d 490 (1988)). Here, the Court does not consider an award of sanctions to be appropriate at this time as Plaintiffs position raises a genuine dispute and reasonable people could differ as to the appropriateness of Plaintiff's actions. However, Plaintiff is cautioned that future discovery violations as well as the failure to comply with this Order may result in sanctions. See Fed.R.Civ.P. 37. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 III. CONCLUSION
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Accordingly, after due consideration, it is 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 ORDERED:
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Defendants' Motion to Compel Production [*4] of Documents (Doc. 38) is GRANTEDin part and DENIED in part as provided in the body of this Order. Plaintiff shall produce all documents in its possession, custody, or control that are responsive to Defendants' First Request for Production of Documents in a reasonably usable format for the production of ESI no later than Tuesday,February 14, 2012.
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 DONE AND ORDERED. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn1] Defendants did not ask Plaintiff to search the entire server; rather, Defendants asked Plaintiff to perform "targeted searches, using specific key terms focusing on appropriate document custodians." See (Doc. 38-H). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn2] According to Defendants, many of the files on the disks are either "system files", "temp files" or require some specialized proprietary software. System files are only usable on the computer system in which they originate, and temp files are files typically created any time anyone attempts to view or access a document on a computer server. However, the "temp files" could not be opened. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn3] Here, the parties did not stipulate to a form of production. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn4] Indeed, the documents appear to have been printed from their native version on August 26, 2011 (as indicated in the lower right hand comer of each email page) and then scanned back into a digital format as new PDF files. See (Doc. 38-I). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn5] The Advisory Notes to Fed.R.Civ.P. 34(b) state that "the option to produce in a reasonably usable form does not mean that a responding party is free to convert electronically stored information from the form in which it is ordinarily maintained to a different form that makes it more difficult or burdensome for the requesting party to use the information efficiently in the litigation. If the responding party ordinarily maintains the information it is producing in a way that makes it searchable by electronic means, the information should not be produced in a form that removes or significantly degrades this feature." 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb566\sa1133\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0          
\f0\fs42 General Information\

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 Judge(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Monte C. Richardson\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Related Docket(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 3:11-cv-00447 (M.D. Fla.);\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Topic(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Civil Procedure\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Date Filed\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 2012-01-24 00:00:00\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Parties\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 INDEPENDENT MARKETING GROUP, INC., a Florida corporation, Plaintiff, vs. JERRY KEEN, an individual; BRIAN J. KEEN, an individual and WILLIAM MEGNA, an individual, Defendants.\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Case Type\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 SO\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Court\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 United States District Court for the Middle District of Florida\cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\li674\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\fs20 \cf0 Pagination \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 *
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 F.R.D. 
\f1\fs24 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 **
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 BL
\f1\fs24 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\li674\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Majority Opinion > 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE MIDDLE DISTRICT OF FLORIDA, ORLANDO DIVISION\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0  \uc0\u8232 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 L-3 COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION, Plaintiff, v. SPARTON CORPORATION and SPARTON ELECTRONICS FLORIDA, INC., Defendants. 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0  \uc0\u8232 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Case No: 6:13-cv-1481-Orl-TBS \
February 12, 2015, Filed February 12, 2015, Decided \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Manuel Farach, Special Master, Pro se, West Palm Beach, FL.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 For L-3 Communications Corporation, doing business as L-3 Linkabit, Plaintiff: Karen L. Weiss, LEAD ATTORNEY, PRO HAC VICE, Levitt LLP, Mineola, NY; Trevor Michael Gomberg, LEAD ATTORNEY, Steven L. Levitt & Associates, P.C., Mineola, NY; William Todd Demetriades, LEAD ATTORNEY, Pursiano Barry Bruce Lavelle, LLP, Winter Park, FL; Irene Tenedios, James E. Brandt, Steven L. Levitt, PRO HAC VICE, Levitt LLP, Mineola, NY.\
For Sparton Corporation, Sparton Electronics Florida, Inc., Defendants: Richard E. Mitchell, LEAD ATTORNEY, GrayRobinson, PA - Orlando, Orlando, FL; Bridget Hathaway, Jane Quasarano, Joseph J. Shannon, PRO HAC VICE, Bodman, PLC, Detroit, MI.
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 THOMAS B. SMITH, United States Magistrate Judge.
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 THOMAS B. SMITH \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 [*663] ORDER
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 This matter comes before the Court on Defendants1 Sparton Corporation and Sparton Electronics Florida, Inc.'s Objection (Doc. 134) to the Report and Recommendation of the Special Master (Doc. 130). Plaintiff L-3 Communications Corporation has filed a response (Doc. 141), and on February 5, 2015, the Court held oral argument on the matter. The Court will SUSTAIN in part [*664] and OVERRULE in part Defendants' objections to the Special Master's Report and Recommendation.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Background 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Plaintiff, manufacturer of a "ruggedized" modem used by the United States military, brings this lawsuit against Defendants, who for a time manufactured two of the modem's five major assemblies\'97the "Ref Gen CC" and the "Rx CCA." Plaintiff alleges that the Ref Gen CC's and Rx CCA's it purchased from Defendants were defective, resulting in damages to Plaintiff (See Doc. 1). Defendants deny Plaintiff's allegations of liability and damages (Doc. 42).\
The parties have executed an Electronic Discovery Protocol and other Discovery Agreements ("ESI Agreement") (Doc. 137, pp. 2-10). In the ESI agreement, the parties agree to conduct electronic discovery by running mutually agreed search terms against databases and other electronic document repositories reasonably believed to contain relevant information ( Id.).\
On July 3, 2014, Plaintiff propounded a list of 153 search terms to Defendants (Doc. 134-4). The vast majority (113 of 153) of these terms are structured as follows: X and "Linkabit" or "L3" or "L-3" or "Ruggedized" or "Receiver" or "Rx" or "Ref Gen" or "Reference Generator," where X is either a single string or series of strings connected by the Boolean operator "or."2 Before Defendants had run any search terms, Plaintiff agreed to remove "Receiver" from each of these search terms; so as modified, these 113 terms read: X and "Linkabit" or "L3" or "L-3" or "Ruggedized" or "Rx" or "Ref Gen" or "Reference Generator" (Doc. 134, p. 7 n. 6). While the remaining search terms vary in structure, they include: 53. "Linkabit" or "L3" or "L-3"; 96. "Ref Gen" or "Reference Generator"; 109. "Ruggedized"; and 110. "Rx" or "Receiver CCA" or "Receiver Circuit Card Assembly."\
In response to Plaintiff'[**2] s request, Defendants ran searches using the terms: "L-3," "Rx," "Linkabit," "l-3com.com," "28718," "28731," "33183," "33176," "36700," "36035," "Receiver CCA," "23787," "23811," "36707," "34426," "36971," and "Receiver Circuit Card Assembly" (Doc. 134, p. 16; Doc. 136-5). Unsatisfied with Defendants' production, Plaintiff submitted a motion to compel to the Special Master, requesting that Defendants be required to run all of Plaintiff's search terms (Doc. 137-11).\
The Special Master submitted his Report and Recommendation on Plaintiff's motion on November 24, 2014 (Doc. 130). The Special Master noted a passage from the Court's previous order stating that no party could "veto" another party's search terms, and reasoned that because "[t]he parties have not agreed between themselves on the limiting the search terms and the court has not revised, amended nor revoked its previous order regarding search terms[,] ... Defendant[s] shall run all search terms propounded by Plaintiff subject to further order of the court" (Doc. 130, p. 2-3).\
Defendants objected to the R&R, and Plaintiff filed its response to the objections (Docs. 134, 141). The parties' disagreement focuses largely on the following search terms:\
\pard\pardeftab720\li539\ri539\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 13. "Clearance" and "Component"\
14. "Co planar" or "Co-planar" or "Coplanarity"\
17. "Corrective Action Request" or "SCAR"\
25. "Design of Experiments" or "Designs of Experiments" or "DOE"\
26. "Det Norske Veritas"\
30. Emails to, from, or including the email domain "emerson.com"\
31. "Emerson"\
39. "Flush\
[*665] 45. "High Temp" or "High Temp" or "High Temperature" and "Solder"\
47. "Indium"\
52. "Lessons Learned"\
53. "Linkabit" or "L3" or "L-3" (only "L3" disputed)\
54. "Low-Temp or "Low Temp" or "Low Temperature" and "Solder"\
61. "No Clean Flux" or "No-Clean Flux"\
84. "Product Development Capabilities"\
91. "Quality Management System"\
94. "Quality Systems Manual"\
109. "Ruggedized"\
128. "Tin Connectors" or "Tinning Connectors"\
130. "Trace Laboratories"\
142. "Z Axis" or "Z-Axis"\
(Doc. 134, p. 10; Doc. 141, p. 13-14). At the hearing, the parties advised the Court that they have resolved their dispute concerning the term "Ruggedized."\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Legal Standards \
Standard of Review of Special Master's Report and Recommendation \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Pursuant to the Court's order appointing the Special Master, the Court reviews objections to the Special Master's findings of facts and conclusions of law de novo (Doc. 118, \'b6 8).3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Standards Governing Discovery \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 The Federal Rules of Civil Procedure adopt a liberal approach toward discovery, with the aim of ensuring that "civil trials in the federal courts [are] no longer ... carried on in the dark." Hickman v. Taylor, 329 U.S. 495 , 501 , 67 S. Ct. 385 , 91 L. Ed. 451 (1947); see also Tiedman v. American Pigment Corp., 253 F.2d 803 , 808 (4th Cir. 1958) ("[A] trial is not a sporting event, and discovery is founded upon the policy that the search for the truth should be aided."). To this end, parties in federal litigation "may obtain discovery regarding any nonprivileged matter that is relevant to any party's claim or defense." Fed. R. Civ. P. 26(b)(1) . Information need not be admissible at trial to be discoverable, so long as "the discovery appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence." Id . \
Discovery of documents and electronically stored information is governed by Rule 34 . Under the rule, [**3] parties may serve on each other requests "to produce and permit the requesting party ... to inspect, copy, test, or sample ... designated documents or electronically stored information\'97including writings, drawings, graphs, sound recordings, images, and other data or data compilations"\'97that are in the other party's possession. Fed. R. Civ. P. 34(a)(1)(A) . A party subject to a request for production "must respond in writing within 30 days after being served." Fed. R. Civ. P. 34(b)(2)(A) .\
When a party subject to a request for production under Rule 34 fails to respond to the request or improperly refuses to produce the requested information, the requesting party may file a motion to compel. Fed. R. Civ. P. 37(a)(3)(B) . If the court grants the motion, or if the discovery is provided after the motion is filed, the moving party is entitled to recover its reasonable expenses in making the motion, including attorney's fees, unless "(i) the movant filed the motion before attempting in good faith to obtain the disclosure or discovery without court action; (ii) the opposing party's nondisclosure, response, or objection was substantially justified; or (iii) other circumstances make an award of expenses unjust." Fed. R. Civ. P. 37(a)(5)(A) . If it denies the motion, the court may enter a protective order under Rule 26(c) "and must, after giving an opportunity to be heard, require [*666] the movant, the attorney filing the motion, or both to pay the [opposing party's] reasonable expenses incurred in opposing the motion," unless "the motion was substantially justified or other circumstances make an award of expenses unjust." Fed. R. Civ. P. 37(a)(5)(B) . If the court grants in part and denies in part a motion to compel, it may enter a protective order and shift expenses between parties as the court deems appropriate. Fed. R. Civ. P. 37(a)(5)(C) .\
Although the courts accord the discovery rules "a broad and liberal treatment," Hickman, 329 U.S. at 507 , there are limits to what a party may discover. A court "must limit the frequency or extent of discovery" upon determining that what is sought is unreasonably cumulative or duplicative or more reasonably obtainable from another source; that the requesting party has had ample opportunity to obtain information; or that the burden of the proposed discovery outweighs the likely benefits, "considering the needs of the case, the amount in controversy, the parties' resources, the importance of the issues at stake in the action, and the importance of the discovery in resolving the issues." Fed. R. Civ. P. 26(b)(2)(C) .\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Discussion \
The Use of Search Terms in Electronic Discovery \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 The last quarter century has seen a revolution in the way information is stored and maintained. The cost of storing information electronically has plummeted by roughly six orders of magnitude, and with this decline in cost, individuals and organizations are storing more and more data electronically. See The Sedona Conference Best Practices Commentary on the Use of Search & Information Retreival Methods in E-Discovery, 15 Sedona Conf. J. 217, 220 (2014) (hereinafter "Best Practices"). A 250 gigabyte laptop hard drive can store the information equivalent [**4] of tens of millions of pages of text. Id. When such large quantities of information become subject to discovery in litigation, "linear" review becomes impossible. Instead, parties and their lawyers must rely on information retrieval tools to identify relevant and responsive documents.\
The simplest and most common of these information retrieval tools is the "keyword search"\'97a "set-based search[] using simple word or word combinations, with or without Boolean and related operators". Best Practices at 231. At a minimum, keyword searching permits a party to efficiently identify documents containing a specific word or combination of words. Windy City Innovations, LLC v. America Online, Inc., 2006 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 56671 , 2006 WL 2224057 , at *3 (N.D. Ill. July 31, 2006); see also In re Lorazepam & Clorazepate, 300 F. Supp. 2d 43 , 46 (D.D.C. 2004) ("The glory of electronic information is not merely that it saves space but that it permits the computer to search for words or 'strings' of text in seconds."). "'[B]asic keyword searching techniques have been widely accepted by both courts and parties as sufficient to define the scope of their obligation to perform a search for responsive documents....'" Victor Stanley, Inc. v. Creative Pipe, Inc., 250 F.R.D. 251 , 261 (D. Md. 2008) (quoting The Sedona Conference Best Practices Commentary on the Use of Search & Information Retrieval Methods in E-Discovery, 8 Sedona Conf. J. 189, 194-95, 201-02 (2008)).\
While the utility of keyword searching is widely accepted, keyword searches are not a perfect tool for distinguishing relevant documents from irrelevant ones. The effectiveness of keyword searches can be measured by several metrics, the most basic of which are "precision" and "recall." Best Practices at 237. A search method's precision is defined as the percentage of documents retrieved by the methods that are relevant.  Id. at 238. The higher a search's precision, the fewer "false positives" there are. A search method's recall is defined as the percentage of all relevant documents in the search universe that are retrieved by that search method.  Id. at 237. The higher the recall, the fewer "false negatives" (i.e., relevant but unretrieved documents) there are. Often, there is a trade-off between precision and recall\'97a broad search that misses few relevant documents will usually capture a lot of irrelevant documents, while a narrower [*667] search that minimizes "false positives" will be more likely to miss some relevant documents.\
Crafting appropriate search terms requires "careful thought, quality control, testing, and cooperation with opposing counsel," and is not always an easy task. William A. Gross Constr. Assocs., Inc. v. American Manufacturers Mut. Ins. Co., 256 F.R.D. 134 , 134 (S.D.N.Y. 2009); see also In re Seroquel Products Liability Litig., 244 F.R.D. 650 , 652 (M.D. Fla. 2007) ("[W]hile key word searching is a recognized method to winnow relevant documents from large repositories, use of this technique must be a cooperative and informed process."). Attorneys must recognize that proper use of information retrieval tools, including keyword searching, requires expertise that a competent or even a highly skilled litigator may not necessarily possess. Equity Analytics, LLC v. Lundin, 248 F.R.D. 331 , 333 (D.[**5] D.C. 2008); United States v. O'Keefe, 537 F. Supp. 2d 14 , 24 (D.D.C. 2008). "Whether search terms or "keywords" will yield the information sought is a complicated question involving the interplay, at least, of the sciences of computer technology, statistics and linguistics." O'Keefe, 537 F. Supp. 2d at 24 (citing George L. Paul & Jason R. Baron, Information Inflation: Can the Legal System Adapt?, 13 Rich. J.L. & Tech. 10 (2007)). Selection of search terms therefore "requires careful advance planning by persons qualified to design effective search methodology. The implementation of the methodology should be tested for quality assurance; and the party selecting the methodology must be prepared to explain the rationale for the method chosen to the court, demonstrate that it is appropriate for the task, and show that it was properly implemented." Victor Stanley, 250 F.R.D. at 262 ; see also Seroquel, 244 F.R.D. at 652 ("Common sense dictates that sampling and other quality assurance techniques must be employed to meet requirements of completeness.").\
Lawyers involved in crafting search terms must also have a thorough understanding of how keyword searching works. Best Practices at 241, 246. From their experience with commercial databases like Westlaw and Lexis, lawyers should already be familiar with the theory and implementation of Boolean searches using operators "AND," "OR," and "NOT," along with the use of parentheses to specify the order in which Boolean operations should be performed. Lawyers should also be familiar with the use of phrase and wildcard searches, as well as proximity searches.4 Lawyers must also understand the functioning and capabilities of any software used to implement keyword searching. Best Practices at 246-47. And, they must be able to explain the methods and tools they use to the court, opposing parties, and their clients.  Id. at 246.\
Finally, and perhaps most importantly, for keyword searching to be an effective information retrieval tool, the process of crafting keywords must be a cooperative one. The party responsible for production will usually be most familiar with its own records, and therefore will be "best situated to evaluate the procedures, methodologies, and technologies appropriate for preserving and producing their own electronically stored information." Sedona Conference, Sedona Principles at 38 (2d ed. 2007). Efficiently crafting search terms requires "input from the ESI's custodians as to the words and abbreviations they use." William A. Gross, 256 F.R.D. at 136 ; see also  id. at 135 (complaining about lawyers "designing keyword searches in the dark, by the seat of the pants, without adequate (indeed, here, apparently without any) discussion with those who wrote the emails").\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Plaintiff's Search Terms: Search terms of the form: X and "Linkabit" or "L3" or "L-3" or "Ruggedized" or "Rx" or "Ref Gen" or "Reference Generator" \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 The search terms in this category are problematic on two levels. First, because Plaintiff didn't bother to include parentheses to indicate which operations should be evaluated first, the search terms are ambiguous. Indeed, any expression containing an "and" and an "or" will be ambiguous without parentheses, [**6] as the diagrams below illustrate:\
[*668] \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 The Court assumes Plaintiff intended the "or" operators to be evaluated first and the "and" operators to be evaluated last.\
Second, after Plaintiff withdrew "Receiver" from these 114 search terms they became duplicative of four other search terms in Plaintiff's list: 53. "Linkabit" or "L3" or "L-3"; 96. "Ref Gen" or "Reference Generator"; 109. "Ruggedized"; and 110. "Rx" or "Receiver CCA" or "Receiver Circuit Card Assembly." Any document that hits on one of these 114 search terms must contain "Linkabit," "L3," "L-3," "Ruggedized," "Rx," "Ref Gen," or "Reference Generator." But any document containing one of these terms will also be a hit for search term 53, 96, 109, or 110. Since they do not retrieve any documents that the remainder of Plaintiff's search terms miss, they have no independent significance and the Court can safely ignore them.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Plaintiff's Search Terms: "L3" \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Plaintiff argues that Defendants should be required to run the search term "L3." (Doc. 141, p. 17). Defendants point out that they have already run the term "L-3," and argue that requiring them to now run "L3" will "in effect require [Defendants] to repeat the entire process again at great expense with the most likely result a duplicate production of a lot of pages."5 (Doc. 134, p. 21). Defendants also fault Plaintiff for not raising Defendants' failure to run the term "L3" before October 16, when it filed its motion with the Special Master. ( Id.). Plaintiff responds that running "L3" in addition to "L-3" is necessary because the parties use "L3" and "L-3" interchangeably to refer to Plaintiff (Doc. 141, p. 17).\
Defendants do not dispute that the search term "L3" is aimed at documents relevant to the case, or that it is unlikely to uncover many irrelevant documents. In fact, they represent to the Court that "L3" was among the terms they agreed to search. (See Doc. 134-4). Defendants' only objection is that a search for "L3" will be expensive and, for the most part, only uncover documents that they have already produced (Doc. 134, p. 21). Defendants presented no evidence of how expensive such a search might be, and given that "L3" is particularly likely among the disputed terms to uncover relevant evidence, the Court rejects Defendants' objection that a search for "L3" would be overly burdensome.\
As for duplication, the Court suspects that this problem could be eliminated by constructing an appropriate search term designed to include documents with the term "L3" but exclude documents with terms already searched for. At the hearing, the Court asked if Defendants could search their [*669] database using the Boolean "not" operator in conjunction with "and," for example, by searching "Solder" and not "L-3" to uncover documents that contained the term "Solder" but not "L-3." Defendants did not know whether or not they could conduct such a search. If they can, then by running a search for "L3" and not "L-3," they can eliminate from the search results any documents uncovered when they searched for "L-3."6 \
Finally, it is possible that the search for "L-3" automatically included all documents that included the term "L3." The hit counts Defendants have provided for the disputed terms [**7] suggest that their e-discovery software does not distinguish between hyphens and spaces between words. "Z Axis" and "Z-Axis" return the same number of hits (20,052), as do "No Clean Flux" and "No-Clean Flux" (5,291) and "Co planar" and "Co-planar" (457). It is possible that "Z Axis" with a space and "Z-Axis" with a hyphen both happen to appear 20,052 times in Defendants' database, but it is more likely that the two searches are looking for the same thing and uncovering the same documents. If a search for "L-3" finds both "L-3" and "L 3," then perhaps it also finds "L3."7 At the hearing, the parties could not give a firm answer to this question. They should try to find out, because if the answer is yes, then their dispute over the search term "L3" is moot. If the answer is no, then Defendants will be required to run the search term "L3," although Defendants may narrow the search term by using "and not" to exclude documents that were hits for searches they have already performed.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Plaintiff's Search Terms: Remaining search terms \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 The remaining disputed search terms reflects a more basic disagreement about the appropriate scope of discovery in this case. Defendants argue that Plaintiff should be limited, for the most part, to discovery concerning the Ref Gen CC and Rx CCA. (Doc. 134, pp. 18, 20). They object to the disputed search terms on the grounds that they are not limited to the Ref Gen CC or Rx CCA, or even to a limited number of other specific products made by Defendants, but are aimed at Defendants' products generally.\
Plaintiff argues that it should be entitled to discover information relating to other products Defendants designed and manufactured for other customers (Doc. 141, pp. 11, 15). It says that its search terms are "calculated to hit on documents critical to L-3's claims in this case" and that "the documents that should result are critical for L-3 to determine, for example, how Sparton utilized its 'standard Quality Management System' under the Statement of Work, or interpreted 'high professional standards' under L-3's Purchase Orders." ( Id., p. 13).\
The Court agrees with Plaintiff that Defendants' application of manufacturing standards in "other, similar contexts" and complaints by Defendants customers about products "subject to the same or similar processes" fall within the scope of discoverable information under Fed. R. Civ. P. 26(b)(1) . But, this does not mean Plaintiff is entitled to unfettered discovery regarding Defendants' other products, even those that could be regarded as "similar" to the Ref Gen CC and Rx CCA. The benefits of Plaintiff's forays into discovery about unrelated products are likely to be relatively limited. Most information about unrelated products is likely to be completely irrelevant, and what is relevant is unlikely to have great probative value, relative to information about the Ref Gen CC and Rx CCA itself. Because the expected benefit of the discovery Plaintiff seeks is limited, the Court will not compel Defendants to respond to Plaintiff's requests in this area where responding would expose Defendants to disproportionate expense. See Fed. R. Civ. P. 26(b)(2)(C) .\
[*670] The [**8] search terms Plaintiff has chosen to do this job simply cast too wide a net. A search for "Corrective Action Request" or "SCAR," for example, will return every single customer complaint in Defendants' database. It is likely that most of these complaints are completely irrelevant to this case. Likewise, the search terms aimed at high temperature and low temperature solder will hit on communications that lack even arguable relevance (e.g., an email asking if someone can order some high-temperature solder). And, Defendants' analogy between searching an electronics design and manufacturing firm for "DOE" (short for "design of experiment") and "Quality Management System" to searching a law firm for "pleading" on a law firm's servers seems an apt one. Absent significant narrowing, the expansive search terms proposed by Plaintiff will not do.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Resolving disputes over search terms \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Today's Order compels Defendants to run the search term "L3" (unless Defendants can show that the previous search for "L-3" uncovered all documents containing "L3"), and relieves Defendants of the burden of running any other search terms. While it does not prevent Plaintiff from pursuing discovery into matters like customer complaints and quality management systems as they relate to products other than the Ref Gen CC and Rx CCA, it makes clear that discovery requests and proposed search terms aimed at unrelated products must be carefully tailored so as to minimize the burden on Defendants.\
If confronted with a search term they believe is overly burdensome, Defendants have an obligation not just to assert their objection, but explain the grounds for the objection and to point to evidence supporting it. If asked, Defendants must offer specific suggestions for narrowing the offending search terms in a way that addresses their concerns while still retrieving as many of the relevant documents targeted by the disputed search terms as possible. See The Case for Cooperation, 10 Sedona Conf. J. 339, 354 (2009) ("[C]ounsel may not use his superior information as to the location or nature of responsive documents to thwart good faith discovery requests by refusing to engage cooperatively to identify ... the search terms likely to produce responsive documents."). This obligation arises from the counsel's duty under Rule 37(a)(1) and Local Rule 3.01(g) , to confer in good faith with opposing counsel in an effort to resolve or at least narrow the scope of a discovery dispute before bringing the dispute before the Court.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Conclusion \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Defendants' objections to the Special Master's Report and Recommendation are SUSTAINED in part and OVERRULED in part. Defendants are ORDERED run the search term "L3," unless Defendants can show that the previous search for "L-3" located all documents containing "L3." Defendants may modify the search query to exclude documents located by searches it has already conducted. Defendants need not run the remainder of the disputed terms from Plaintiff's first set of search terms.\
DONE and ORDERED in Orlando, Florida on February 12, 2015.\
/s/ Thomas B. Smith\
THOMAS [**9] B. SMITH\
United States Magistrate Judge\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0  \uc0\u8232 \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 1\
Plaintiff points out that the objection was actually filed only on behalf of Defendant Sparton Corporation, and not on behalf of Defendant Sparton Electronics Florida, Inc. (Doc. 141, p. 1). Therefore, Plaintiff suggests that Sparton Electronics Florida, Inc. has waived any objections to the Report and Recommendation by failing to object ( Id.). Subjecting the two Defendants to differing discovery obligations will not achieve any useful purpose, and may spawn more litigation over which Defendant has custody of which document. Therefore, the Court will construe the objection as being made on behalf of both Defendants. But, if counsel continue to file papers solely on behalf of Sparton Corporation the Court may reach a different result in the future.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 2\
The search terms that fall into this category are 1-10, 12, 16, 18-24, 27-28, 32-37, 40-44, 46, 48-51, 55-60, 62-83, 85-90, 92-93, 95, 97-108, 111-17, 119-27, 129, 131-40. Search term 141 ("Yield Data" or "L3" or "L-3" or "Ruggedized" or "Receiver" or "Rx" or "Ref Gen" or "Reference Generator") appears similar to these search terms, except that the there is an "or" rather than an "and" after "Yield Data" and "Linkabit" is omitted. The Court assumes for purposes of this order that search term 141 was intended to be crafted like the other 113 similar search terms.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 3\
Plaintiff argues that Defendants' objection made 17 days after the Special Master's R&R is untimely. The Court disagrees. The order appointing the Special Master provided that objections to the Special Master's R&R be made in the same manner as objections to a magistrate judge's R&R. Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 72(b)(1) and Local Rule 6.02(a) provide that the time for objection to a magistrate judge's R&R is 14 days after service of the R&R. When the time for doing an act runs from "service" of a paper (rather than "filing" or "entry"), and service is made by certain specified means (including electronically through CM-ECF), the time to act is automatically extended by three days. Fed. R. Civ. P. 6(d) . The Special Master served his R&R on the parties electronically through CM-ECF when he filed it on November 24, 2014. Defendant's objection, filed 17 days later, was therefore timely.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 4\
A basic overview of these concepts can be found in Best Practices at 255-57.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 5\
At the same time, Defendants do not identify "L3" as one of the disputed terms in the Statement of Facts section of their objection (see Doc. 134, pp. 10-11), and they include "L3" as a term that they agreed to run (Doc. 134-4).\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 6\
Defendants could eliminate duplication of any previously produced document (or at least any document previously produced as a hit for a search term) by searching for "L3" and not (X1 or X2 or X3 or ... or XN) where X1 ... XN are search terms Defendants have already run.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 7\
The Court notes that a Boolean search for the hyphenated form of a word (e.g., "case-law") in Westlaw Next will return documents containing the hyphenated word, the spaced words ("case law"), the unhyphenated word ("caselaw"), or a combination of the three.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb566\sa1133\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0          
\f0\fs42 General Information\

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 Judge(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Thomas B. Smith\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Related Docket(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 6:13-cv-01481 (M.D. Fla.);\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Topic(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Civil Procedure\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Date Filed\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 2015-02-12 00:00:00\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Parties\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 L-3 COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION, Plaintiff, v. SPARTON CORPORATION and SPARTON ELECTRONICS FLORIDA, INC., Defendants.\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Court\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 United States District Court for the Middle District of Florida\cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\li674\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\fs20 \cf0 Pagination \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 *
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 BL
\f1\fs24 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\li674\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Majority Opinion > 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA, MIAMI DIVISION\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0  \uc0\u8232 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 PROCAPS S.A., Plaintiff, v. PATHEON INC., Defendant. 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0  \uc0\u8232 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 CASE NO. 12-24356-CIV-GOODMAN \
February 2, 2016, Entered on Docket February 2, 2016, Decided \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 For Mr. John M. Barkett, Special Master: John Moses Barkett, LEAD ATTORNEY, Shook Hardy & Bacon, Miami, FL.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 For Procaps S.A., a Colombian sociedad anonima, Plaintiff: Chris S. Coutroulis, Donald R. Schmidt, LEAD ATTORNEYS, Carlton Fields Jorden Burt, P.A., Tampa, FL; Gary Michael Pappas, LEAD ATTORNEY, Alan Rosenthal, Carlton Fields Jorden Burt, P.A., Miami, FL; Karen L. Hagberg, Michael B. Miller, LEAD ATTORNEYS, PRO HAC VICE, Morrison & Foerster, New York, NY; Natalie Jessica Carlos, LEAD ATTORNEY, Carlton Fields P.A., Miami, FL; Charles Woodward Throckmorton, V, David Lanier Luck, Carlton Fields Jorden Burt, P.A., Miami, FL; D Matthew Allen, Carlton Fields Jorden Burt, P.A., Tampa, FL; Robert Wayne Pass, Carlton Fields Jorden Burt, P.A., Tallahassee, FL.\
For Patheon Inc., a Canadian corporation, Defendant: David A. Vogel, LEAD ATTORNEY, PRO HAC VICE, Cooley, LLP, Reston, VA; Dee Bansal, Joshua M. Siegel, Marc Schildkraut, Michael J. Klisch, LEAD ATTORNEYS, PRO HAC VICE, Cooley, LLP, Washington, DC; Douglas P. Lobel, LEAD ATTORNEY, Cooley, LLP, Reston, VA; M. Howard Morse, LEAD ATTORNEY, Cooley, LLP, Washington, DC; Mary Kathryn Kelley, LEAD ATTORNEY, Cooley, LLP, San Diego, CA; Mazda K. Antia, LEAD ATTORNEY, PRO HAC VICE, Cooley, LLP, San Diego, CA; Robert Mark Brochin, LEAD ATTORNEY, Morgan, Lewis & Bockius LLP, Miami, FL; Robert T. Cahill, LEAD ATTORNEY, PRO HAC VICE, Cooley, LLP, Reston, VA; Meredith M. Snyder, PRO HAC VICE, Cooley, LLP, Washington, DC.
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Jonathan Goodman, UNITED STATES MAGISTRATE JUDGE.
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Jonathan Goodman \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 ORDER ON DEFENDANT PATHEON'S BILL OF TAXABLE COSTS
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 After obtaining an order granting summary judgment in its favor and a related final judgment, Defendant Patheon Inc. ("Patheon") filed a bill of taxable costs. [ECF No. 1023]. Patheon supported its application with a memorandum of law, a declaration and myriad exhibits. Plaintiff Procaps S.A. ("Procaps") filed an opposition [ECF No. 1026], asking that the costs bill be stayed, that the Court deny all costs or, alternatively, significantly reduce them.\
The Undersigned previously entered a stay [ECF No. 1040], at Procaps' request, in connection with Patheon's motion for attorney's fees (of almost $23 million, under three separate theories) and non-taxable costs (of approximately $1.6 million). The order granting the stay was based on the fact that most of the fees and costs sought arose from the Florida Deceptive and Unfair Trade Practices Act ("FDUtpA"), which provides that an award cannot be entered until all appeals have been exhausted. Procaps' appeal is pending and is only in its preliminary stages. The taxable costs, however, do not arise from FDUTPA, so the Undersigned will consider them now.\
For the reasons stated below, the Undersigned grants in part the taxable costs bill and awards Patheon $173,480.80 in costs against Procaps.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 I. BACKGROUND 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Procaps' lawsuit against Patheon was filed in December 2012 and has been actively and aggressively litigated. There are now 1040 docket entries. The Order granting [*2] Patheon's summary judgment motion was docket entry 1020.\
According to Patheon's memorandum filed in support of its bill of costs [ECF 1023-1], the litigation, in which Procaps sought approximately $380 million in treble damages, involved nearly 50 depositions.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 II. LEGAL STANDARD 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 54(d)(1) provides that "[u]nless a federal statute, these rules, or a court order provides otherwise, costs -- other than attorney's fees -- should be allowed to the prevailing party." Local Rule 7.3(c) establishes guidelines for a bill of costs, specifically referencing 28 U.S.C. \'a7 1920 . Section 1920 provides:\
\pard\pardeftab720\li539\ri539\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 A judge or clerk of any court of the United States may tax as costs the following:\
(1) Fees of the clerk and marshal;\
(2) Fees for printed or electronically recorded transcripts necessarily obtained for use in the case;\
(3) Fees and disbursements for printing and witnesses;\
(4) Fees for exemplification and the costs of making copies of any materials where the copies are necessarily obtained for use in the case;\
(5) Docket fees under section 1923 of this title;\
(6) Compensation of court appointed experts, compensation of interpreters, and salaries, fees, expenses, and costs of special interpretation services under section 1828 of this title.\
A bill of costs shall be filed in the case and, upon allowance, included in the judgment or decree.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Although the prevailing party is entitled to costs, a court can still exercise its discretion in awarding the costs enumerated in \'a7 1920 . See Crawford Fitting Co. v. J.T. Gibbons, Inc., 482 U.S. 437 , 441-42 , 107 S. Ct. 2494 , 96 L. Ed. 2d 385 (1987). When challenging whether costs are taxable, "the losing party bears the burden of demonstrating that a cost is not taxable, unless the knowledge regarding the proposed cost is within the exclusive knowledge of the prevailing party." Monelus v. Tocodrian, Inc., 609 F. Supp. 2d 1328 , 1333 (S.D. Fla. 2009). See also Aguiar v. Natbony, No. 09-60683-CIV, 2011 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 104728 , [2011 BL 421018], 2011 WL 4383224 , at *2 (S.D. Fla., April 15, 2011).\
Despite this burden, a court is limited to taxing only those costs specifically authorized by statute. E.E.O.C. v. W&O, Inc., 213 F.3d 600 , 620 (11th Cir. 2000) (citing Crawford, 482 U.S. at 445 ).\
Patheon contends that it incurred far more costs than it seeks in its bill of costs. Patheon is entitled to the costs outlined in the federal statute because it prevailed on summary judgment. Head v. Medford, 62 F.3d 351 , 354-55 (11th Cir. 1995) (reversing trial court's order denying a costs recovery for defendants after they obtained summary judgment).\
Although Rule 54(d) provides that costs need not be awarded to the prevailing party if "the court otherwise directs," the Eleventh Circuit has held that the trial court "must give a reason for its denial of costs so that the appellate court may have some basis upon which to determine if the trial court acted within its discretionary power." Head, 62 F.3d at 354 . Moreover, the discretion to deny costs to a prevailing party is "not unfettered." Id . \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 III. ANALYSIS 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 The Undersigned analyzes each of Patheon's requested costs below.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 A. Fees of the Clerk and Marshal 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Section 1920(1) provides that "[a] judge or clerk . . . may tax as costs the fees of the clerk and marshal." Procaps does not challenge the $390.00 costs for private process server fees.\
The Eleventh Circuit has held that "private process server [*3] fees may be taxed pursuant to \'a7\'a7 1920(1) and 1921 " provided that these fees do not exceed what it would cost to have a U.S. Marshal effectuate service. See E.E.O.C., 213 F.3d at 624 ; Santana v. RCSH Operations, LLC, No. 10-61376-Civ, 2012 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 124119 , [2012 BL 237857], 2012 WL 3779013 , at *2-*3 (S.D. Fla. 2012). The current rate of the U.S. Marshal's service is $65.00 per hour plus travel costs and out-of-pocket expenses. See 28 C.F.R. \'a7 0.114(a)(3) .\
Although Patheon incurred $1,150 hiring process servers to serve six third-party subpoenas, it seeks only $390 -- six subpoenas at the $65 rate. The Undersigned finds that this rate is reasonable, as it is the rate used by the U.S. Marshal. Accordingly, the Undersigned orders that Patheon be awarded $390 in costs for service of subpoenas.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 B. Fees for Printed or Electronically Recorded Transcripts Necessarily Obtained for Use in the Case 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Pursuant to \'a7 1920(2) , Patheon seeks $150,579.78 in costs for printed or electronically recorded deposition transcripts that it necessarily obtained for use in the case. Specifically, Patheon seeks to recover the following: (1) $103,171.32 to obtain transcripts of 29 depositions, including the costs of expedited transcripts and videographers, (2) $33,106.56 to obtain transcripts of the 20 depositions which Procaps took in the case, and (3) $14,301.90 to obtain hearing transcripts, many of which required expedited delivery. Patheon's request includes costs for the transcripts, expedited delivery, ASCII/rough versions of transcripts, processing and copying of exhibits, witness reading and signing transcripts, video transcript synchronization, and archiving and cloud storage.\
The Eleventh Circuit has held that the "[t]axation of deposition costs is authorized by \'a7 1920(2) ." E.E.O.C., 213 F.3d at 620 . Furthermore, "the non-prevailing party bears the burden of showing that specific deposition costs . . . [are] not necessary for use in the case[.]" Monelus, 609 F. Supp. 2d at 1337 (citing E.E.O.C., 213 F.3d at 621 ).\
Procaps objects to these costs, saying that much of them are purely for the convenience of counsel (and are therefore not recoverable) and contending that Patheon's 12-page memorandum and supporting 22-page declaration do not sufficiently break down the costs, a purported failure it says should cause the Undersigned to entirely deny all requested transcription costs. Fifteen of the 22 pages in the supporting declaration concern the request for reimbursement of expenses for deposition and hearing transcripts.\
A party may recover fees for depositions and transcripts obtained for use in the case. Aguiar, 2011 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 104728 , [2011 BL 421018], 2011 WL 4383224 , at *3; PODS Enters., LLC v. U-Haul Int'l, Inc., No. 8:12-cv-01479, 2015 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 111698 , [2015 BL 272589], 2015 WL 5021668 , at *1 (M.D. Fla. Aug. 24, 2015); 28 U.S.C. \'a7 1920(2) . "Recoverable costs include deposition transcript costs and attendance fees of the court reporter or per diem." Parrot, Inc. v. Nicestuff Dist. Int'l, Inc., No. 06-61231, 2010 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 16128 , [2010 BL 399300], 2010 WL 680948 , at *14 (S.D. Fla. Feb. 24 2010); Barrera v. Weiss & Woolrich S., 900 F. Supp. 2d 1328 , 1335 (S.D. Fla. 2012) (awarding costs for court reporter's appearance fee and transcript). If a deposition was taken by the non-prevailing party, the prevailing party "may recover the costs associated with obtaining a copy of a deposition transcript." Frasca v. NCL (Bahamas) Ltd., No. 12-20662, 2014 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 117859 , [2014 BL 409981], 2014 WL 4206697 , at *5 (S.D. Fla., Aug. 25, 2014). Costs for hearing transcripts are also taxable. Embroidme.com, Inc. v. Travelers [*4] Prop. Cas. Co. of Am., No. 12-81250, 2014 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 152798 , [2014 BL 303112], 2014 WL 5325211 , at *4 (S.D. Fla. Aug. 20, 2014).\
"Normal delivery charges for transcripts are considered reasonable costs associated with depositions and are recoverable." Parrot, Inc., 2010 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 16128 , [2010 BL 399300], 2010 WL 680948 , at *14. If an expedited or rough transcript was necessary, the cost is recoverable. Barrera, 900 F. Supp. 2d at 1335 (necessary if it occurred within 30 days of a deadline or motion because the short timeframe required expedited services); Embroidme.com, Inc., 2014 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 152798 , [2014 BL 303112], 2014 WL 5325211 , at *4, 6 (awarding cost of expedited transcripts where, "given the short amount of time" between the deposition and a motion, "the expedited rate was necessary"); Kearney v. Auto-Owners Ins. Co., No. 8:06-cv-00595, 2010 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 54801 , [2010 BL 397349], 2010 WL 1856060 , at *2 (M.D. Fla. May 10, 2010) ("[N]ecessary to obtain expedited transcripts or rough draft transcripts for 12 witnesses deposed shortly before the August 14, 2009 discovery deadline").\
The costs of a videographer may be taxed if the party noticed the deposition to be recorded by non-stenographic means, or by both stenographic and non-stenographic means, and no objection was raised at that time by the other party. Morrison v. Reichhold Chems., 97 F.3d 460 , 464-65 (11th Cir. 1996); PODS Enters., 2015 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 111698 , [2015 BL 272589], 2015 WL 5021668 , at *1 ("costs of videotaping depositions" are "taxable as a part of the cost of a videotaped deposition"). Video synchronization fees may also be awarded where they "help the jury and the Court and conserve[] time." Frasca, 2014 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 117859 , [2014 BL 409981], 2014 WL 4206697 , at *6-7. Transcripts are "necessarily obtained for use in the case" where testimony was used in motions or needed for impeachment at trial, the deponent was on the losing party's trial witness list, or the deposition was "necessary to the issues" when taken, even if "use of a deposition is minimal or not critical to that party's ultimate success." Monelus, 609 F. Supp. 2d at 1337 (quoting Lovett v. KLLM, Inc., No. 4:05-CV-026, 2007 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 22308 , [2007 BL 309751], 2007 WL 983192 , at * 6 (N.D. Ga. 2007)); EEOC, 213 F.2d at 621 (allowing deposition costs where deponent was listed on witness list); Parrot, 2010 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 16128 , [2010 BL 399300], 2010 WL 680948 , at *14 (awarding costs for transcripts that were cited in briefs).\
A "deposition taken within the proper bounds of discovery will normally be deemed to be 'necessarily obtained for use in the case.'" Santana, 2012 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 124119 , [2012 BL 237857], 2012 WL 3779013 , at *5 (quotations omitted). Because the parties have equal knowledge of the basis for each deposition, the non-prevailing party bears the burden of showing that a specific deposition or court reporter cost was not necessary or that the deposition was not related to an issue present in the case at the time of the deposition. Monelus, 609 F. Supp. 2d at 1333 , 1337 .\
On the other hand, Procaps argues that a prevailing party is not entitled to recover costs that were incurred solely for the convenience of counsel. See e.g., Spatz v. Microtel Inns & Suites Franchising, Inc., No. 11-60509, 2012 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 63112 , [2012 BL 428868], 2012 WL 1587663 , at *6 (S.D. Fla. May 4, 2012) (denying exhibit costs because "the Court will not award costs for deposition exhibits when the prevailing party 'has provided no information demonstrating that the copies of transcript exhibits were made for anything more than convenience of counsel,'" particularly where "the party otherwise had access to the exhibits") (internal citation omitted); Responsible Me, Inc. v. Evenflo Co., Inc., No. 06-61736, 2009 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 125344 , [2009 BL 367732], 2009 WL 528247 , at *8 (S.D. Fla. Mar. 2, 2009) ("With regard to the additional charges included in the five deposition transcripts, most courts have found [*5] that the costs for shipping, exhibit scanning, disk copies and mini-scripts are not taxable as costs."); Waste Servs., Inc. v. Waste Mgmt. Inc., No. 6:05-cv-320, 2007 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 102610 , [2007 BL 7119], 2007 WL 1174116 , at *4 (M.D. Fla. Apr. 18, 2007) (text to video synchronization not taxable); Feinschreiber v. United States, No. 01-3628, 2002 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 15816 , 2002 WL 31084156 , at *2 (S.D. Fla. Aug. 12, 2002) (denying recovery for ASCII draft transcripts and manuscripts); Am. Guar. & Liab. Ins. Co. v. United States Fid. & Guar. Co., No. 06-655, 2010 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 45379 , [2010 BL 103895], 2010 WL 1935998 , at *4, *6 (E.D. Mo. May 10, 2010) (denying costs for mini, E-transcript, and rough ASCII because they were for the convenience of counsel).\
Procaps argues that the majority of Patheon's costs for deposition transcripts were for expedited service.\
Patheon contends that expedited transcripts were necessary, as depositions occurred shortly before critical deadlines or motions because: (1) the parties had to litigate scheduling several depositions that Procaps refused to schedule without a Court order (see, e.g., ECF Nos. 252; 291; 450); (2) Procaps would not make its witnesses available until shortly before deadlines; or (3) Patheon had to wait for Procaps to produce documents before the depositions. [ECF No. 1023-3, \'b6\'b6 6, 9, 12]. These costs include the fees charged by videographers. [ Id.]. Both parties noticed depositions to be recorded both by video and stenographic means without objection and Patheon contends that videographer services were necessary because it submitted video to the Court [ECF Nos. 230; 882], and Procaps either refused to agree to make its witnesses available at trial and/or refused to respond to Patheon's requests that Procaps make witnesses available for Patheon to call during Patheon's defense case.\
Patheon further notes that the transcripts were "necessarily obtained for use in the case" because: (1) the witnesses were identified in Procaps' initial disclosures as "likely to have discoverable information" ( 28 U.S.C. \'a7 1920(2) ; see also ECF No. 807-4); (2) the witnesses were on Procaps' trial lists, thus the transcripts were needed for impeachment [ECF No. 816-3]; (3) the transcripts were used, and relied on by Patheon, in its summary judgment filings [see e.g., ECF No. 1023-3, \'b6 5]; and/or (4) Patheon relied on the transcripts throughout the litigation, for example, in its motion for a forensic analysis, which resulted in Procaps producing about 150,000 documents [see e.g., ECF No. 301].\
Patheon also says it incurred $33,106.56 obtaining transcripts of 20 depositions which Procaps conducted in this case [ECF No. 1023-3, \'b6 45], and incurred $14,301.90 obtaining 28 hearing transcripts. [ Id., \'b6 46]. It says these transcripts frequently required expedited delivery because: (1) the parties were on an expedited schedule to try this case in 2015; (2) it had to rely on hearing transcripts to file a motion or respond to Procaps' motion; and/or (3) the Court ordered Patheon to file documents, such as a draft summary judgment order, that relied on the transcript. [ Id.; ECF No. 977, p. 2].\
As a practical matter, Procaps does not contest that the transcripts were obtained for use in the case. Instead, its opposition focuses almost exclusively on the expedited nature of the expenses and the costs it says were incurred solely for counsel'[*6] s convenience.\
Patheon disputes that attack, and notes that the costs it requests do not include expenses for services for its counsel's convenience, such as realtime charges, costs for shipping and handling, processing fees, CD deposition packages and summary or condensed transcripts.\
The Undersigned is extremely familiar with this case and the aggressiveness with which both parties litigated it. For all practical purposes, both sides had a team of attorneys working on this lawsuit. At times, the attorneys had to work under extreme deadline pressure -- which generated the need to order transcripts on an expedited basis. In addition, Procaps was seeking more than $350 million in treble antitrust damages and the trial date was tight, especially when framed against the comparatively late discovery provided by Procaps after a Court-ordered forensic analysis of its electronically stored information. Under these circumstances,1 the Undersigned does not find that Procaps met its burden to establish that these costs were not recoverable as expenses incurred purely for counsel's convenience.\
Therefore, Patheon is entitled to $150,579.78 in costs for printed or electronically recorded transcripts of depositions and hearings.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 C. Paper and Electronic Copying Costs 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Patheon seeks $44,253.77 in copy expenses, which includes costs for both traditional and electronic copying. Of that, $10,955.14 is for paper copying and related costs and $33,298.63 is for electronic copying. Procaps contends that the charges sought for electronic copying are not taxable under Section 1920. It also argues that the costs request in both categories includes expenses incurred primarily for the convenience of counsel (and are therefore not recoverable) and that Patheon has not provided a sufficiently detailed explanation of the expenses (which Procaps says is a fatal flaw, leading to a no-recovery scenario).\
The parties have a significant legal disagreement over the basic issue of whether electronic copy expenses are even recoverable at all.\
Given the significant disconnect between the parties' positions on what types of copying expenses the courts deem reimbursable under Section 1920, the Undersigned is required to determine the applicable law concerning electronic copying costs. I also must determine if Patheon has sufficiently met its burden when seeking an award for both paper copying and electronic copying. The analysis will begin with the request for the more-traditional paper copying and related costs and will then address electronic copying -- a more-detailed and more-nuanced evaluation.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Paper Copying
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Costs of making copies and fees for exemplification are normally taxable under \'a7 1920(4). "However, costs of copies made for the mere convenience of counsel are not taxable." Diaz v. AIG Mktg., Inc., No. 09-60011-CIV, 2010 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 62092 , [2010 BL 399840], 2010 WL 2541872 , at *4 (S.D. Fla. June 1, 2010). Copies of documents used for the purposes of discovery and for the preparation of trial are recoverable under \'a7 1920(4). See Miccosukee Tribe of Indians of Fla. V. Kraus-Anderson Const. Co.[*7] , No. 04-22774-CIV, 2007 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 56396 , [2007 BL 309308], 2007 WL 2254931 , at *2 (S.D. Fla. Aug. 2, 2007) (awarding costs under \'a7 1920(4) for photocopies necessary for trial); Fressell v. AT&T Technologies, Inc., 103 F.R.D. 111 , 118 (N.D. Ga. 1984) (awarding costs pursuant to \'a7 1920(4) for discovery-related photocopies).\
Likewise, costs of copies of pleadings, correspondence, documents tendered to the opposing party and documents prepared for the court's consideration are recoverable." Parrot, 2010 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 16128 , 2010 WL 680948 , at *15. See also Frasca, 2014 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 117859 , [2014 BL 409981], 2014 WL 4206697 , at *9. This includes the "costs associated with copying documents for the purpose of providing them to the court," and "copies produced to opposing counsel." Monelus, 609 F. Supp. 2d at 1335 ; Frasca, 2014 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 117859 , [2014 BL 409981], 2014 WL 4206697 , at *9.\
Rates between $0.10 and $0.25 per page are recoverable. Fla. Pawnbrokers & Secondhand Dealers Ass'n v. City of Fort Lauderdale, 711 F. Supp. 1084 , 1086 (S.D. Fla. 1989) ($0.25 per page); Exime v. E.W. Ventures, Inc., No. 08-60099, 2009 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 61367 , [2009 BL 368140], 2009 WL 1759351 , at *2 (S.D. Fla. June 18, 2009) ($0.19 per page); Ferguson v. Bombardier Servs. Corp., No. 8:03-cv-539, 2007 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 12087 , [2007 BL 226371], 2007 WL 601921 , at *7 (M.D. Fla. Feb. 21, 2007) ($0.10 to $0.15 per page). Color copying rates as high as $1.25 per page are reasonable. Curry v. Montgomery, No. 07-22899, 2010 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 21102 , [2010 BL 399238], 2010 WL 883798 , at *5-6 (S.D. Fla. Mar. 9, 2010). And while Patheon must present evidence regarding the use or intended use of the copies in general, it need not explain the "need for, or use of, each particular copy." Barrera, 900 F. Supp. 2d at 1334 ; Frasca, 2014 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 117859 , [2014 BL 409981], 2014 WL 4206697 , at *9.\
As the party seeking these types of costs, Patheon bears the burden of showing that it obtained the copies for use in the case. Diaz, 2010 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 62092 , 2010 WL 2541872 , at *4.\
Procaps underscores the rule that the party seeking costs has the burden of proving that its photocopying expenses were "necessary." George v. Fla. Dep't of Corrections, No. 07-80019, 2008 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 109239 , [2008 BL 148647], 2008 WL 2571348 , at *2 (S.D. Fla. May 23, 2008) (prevailing party "cannot make unsubstantiated claims that copies of the documents were necessary" and therefore must "provide information regarding the purpose of copies") (emphasis supplied). And it stresses that the prevailing party must provide enough information "so the court will be able to determine whether the rates paid for copies were reasonable, whether the copies made were related to the action at issue and what the copies were for." Id. \
Continuing with its "Patheon-must-specifically-demonstrate-that-the-copying-costs-were-necessary" theme, Procaps relies upon cases holding that copying expenses lacking sufficient specifics are not taxable. Curry v. HSBC Tech & Servc., LLC, No. 6:11-cv-963, 2013 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 146145 , [2013 BL 279771], 2013 WL 5567414 , at *4 (M.D. Fla. Oct. 9, 2013); Helms v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., 808 F. Supp. 1568 , 1570 , aff'd 998 F.2d 1023 (11th Cir. 1993).\
According to Patheon, most of the copies it made were in black and white, but some of the copies were in color when this was necessary for a deposition or for the Court. It paid between 9 cents and 12 cents per page for black and white copies and between 35 and 90 cents per page for color copies.\
Patheon has submitted myriad exhibits to support its request for paper copying costs and several paragraphs of the supporting declaration from its lead counsel also provide additional explanation for the costs. Nevertheless, Procaps is correct when it contends that costs for binders, folders, labels and similar items are usually not recoverable because they are for counsel's convenience. On the other hand, the Undersigned specifically requested that both parties submit to chambers [*8] duplicate copies of motions, memoranda and case law authority in tabbed binders, so the expenses incurred to comply with those types of Court orders are recoverable because the costs were incurred for the Court.\
Thus, the costs for binders, folders, labels and related items are reimbursable when used in conjunction with complying with an order specifically requiring them, but they would not be eligible for an award when used in other settings, such as a deposition. Those uses would be for the convenience of counsel, and thereby not compensable. Durden v. Citicorp Trust Bank, FSB, No. 3:07-cv-974, 2010 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 59537 , [2010 BL 397315], 2010 WL 2105921 , at *4 (M.D. Fla. April 26, 2010) (costs for binders, labeling and bates numbering are "extraneous" and to be borne "primarily of convenience, and not necessity"). See also Powell v. The Home Depot, U.S.A., Inc., No. 07-80435, 2010 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 110301 , [2010 BL 370448], 2010 WL 4116488 (S.D. Fla. Sept. 14, 2010), at *16 (deductions for Bates labeling, notebooks, bindings and tabs must be made because these costs "are not permitted by section 1920 and appear to have been incurred for the convenience of counsel"); Habersham Plantation Corp. v. Art & Frame Direct, Inc., No. 10-61532, 2011 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 142139 , [2011 BL 314076], 2011 WL 6138740 , at *4-5 (S.D. Fla. Dec. 9, 2011) (reducing by 50% the requested costs for exemplification and copying); Osorio v. Dole Food Co., No. 07-22693, 2010 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 82011 , [2010 BL 400045], 2010 WL 3212065 , at *8 (S.D. Fla. July 7, 2010) (expenses for blowbacks from CD, custom tabs and binders are not taxable); Luken v. International Yacht Council, Ltd., No. 02-60772, 2009 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 129651 , [2009 BL 367813], 2009 WL 678005 , at *7 (S.D. Fla. Mar. 11, 2009) (binders, tabs and dividers are not compensable); Van Voorhis v. Hillsborough Board of County Commissioners, No. 8:06-1171, 2008 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 108736 , [2008 BL 151758], 2008 WL 2790244 (M.D. Fla. July 18, 2008) (excluding as recoverable costs expenses for binders and dividers, which are "subsumed within operating overhead and are not taxable"); Rundus v. City of Dallas, No. 3-06-CV-1823 , 2009 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 101429 , [2009 BL 236912], 2009 WL 3614519 , at *4 (N.D. Tex. Nov. 2, 2009) (no recovery under section 1920 for "incidental expenses" such as binding, folders, labels CDs and DVDs); M.D. Mark, Inc. v. Kerr-McGee Corp., No. 01-cv-00413, 2008 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 5688 , [2008 BL 7976], 2008 WL 162990 , at *5-6 (D. Colo. Jan. 15, 2008) (no costs recovery for binders, index tables, bates-labeling and other photocopying related costs even though they "probably made the handling of the discovery and exhibits more convenient").\
For some, but not all, of the invoices at issue, Patheon's costs request (and the supporting exhibits, declaration and memorandum) sufficiently breaks down these typically non-recoverable expenses into those incurred to comply with a Court order and those incurred solely for counsel's convenience. For example, attorney Michael Klisch's declaration [ECF No. 1023-3] explains which specific invoice relates to copy expenses for materials delivered to the Court and it even specifies how many copies were provided to the Court, how many were provided to the clerk and how many were for Procaps. The declaration also notes the copies for which it is not seeking reimbursement, such as the extra copy of its second summary judgment motion and exhibits. [ECF No. 1023-3, pp. 17-18]. It also noted when the Undersigned required that the parties highlight the relevant portions of the case law authorities they submitted, a directive requiring color copies.\
Procaps' opposition contends that the declaration does not provide [*9] detail "other than stating, in a conclusory fashion, that the total charges for each invoice were incurred for specific depositions or to provide copies of documents to the Court." [ECF No. 1026, p. 7]. The Undersigned is not completely convinced by this objection, which is itself vague and conclusory, but finds that Patheon did not always provide adequate detail to support its costs request for traditional photocopying.\
To be sure, the declaration provides background on an invoice-by-invoice basis, and that is adequate2 for some of the requested reimbursement. But there is still a lack of support for some of the copying costs which are not recoverable unless specifically required by the Court (e.g., binders, tabs, dividers, etc.). Even when Patheon explains that an invoice seeks copying expenses related to a Court directive to submit materials to chambers in a certain way, it does not carve out these costs for the copies provided to opposing counsel or to itself. For example, Patheon explains that Invoice FTL 14040035 notes that the certain costs were incurred "because the Court ordered Patheon to deliver courtesy copies of its summary judgment materials, bound and tabbed, in hard copy form." (emphasis added). But it also includes costs for one copy sent to Procaps and one for itself, and it notes that the costs were for "binders, tabs and assembling the copies." It appears as though Patheon is seeking recovery for these expenses.\
Moreover, other invoices not related to a Court directive to provide copies in a certain format also seek an award under Section 1920 for these non-recoverable items. By way of example, Patheon explains that Invoice FTL 14020131 is for hard copy exhibits for three depositions -- which included "the costs of folders, binders, tabs and assembling the copies." Patheon should have, but did not, exclude those expenses from its costs request. In addition, the attached invoices often do not separate the actual copying cost from the other costs, such as "assembly."\
Similar to the Court's position in Habersham Plantation, the Undersigned "declines to unilaterally undertake [an] analysis" of the invoices and, recognizing that Patheon "bears the burden of identifying the taxable versus the non-taxable costs," will reduce the requested photocopying expenses of $10,955.14 by 25% (i.e., a $2,738.78 reduction), leaving a photocopy expense award of $8,216.36.\
The Court therefore awards Patheon $8,216.36 in paper copying costs.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Electronic Discovery Costs
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 As Patheon notes in its supporting memorandum, Procaps' document request required Patheon to produce documents in TIFF format, with associated metadata, and in searchable form. Therefore, Patheon contends it had no choice but to scan paper documents into electronic form, extract native electronic documents and metadata, format and import them into a database and convert them from native format into TIFF.\
Moreover, Patheon further argues that part of its electronic discovery costs concerned expenses it had to incur in order to cause Procaps to correct its over-designation of Highly [*10] Confidential documents. Patheon contends that it is not seeking e-discovery costs for services performed solely for its counsel's convenience of reviewing or processing documents Procaps produced to Patheon. Finally, Patheon argues that its taxable e-discovery costs request is conservative because it does not include expenses for its e-discovery vendor's technical support (even though they were incurred, in part, for producing documents to Procaps).\
Patheon contends that electronic discovery costs are copying costs and "clearly are recoverable" if they involve extracting documents and metadata, formatting documents, importing and loading them into a database, or converting them into a form requested by the non-prevailing party.\
To advance that argument, Patheon says that the services required for producing information stored electronically differ from the services required to produce information from hard copies of documents.\
But Procaps notes that electronic copies made for the convenience of counsel are ordinarily not taxable costs. See Roberts v. Charter Nat'l Life Ins. Co., 112 F.R.D. 411 , 414 (S.D. Fla. 1986). See also Scelta v. Delicatessen Support Servs., Inc., 203 F. Supp. 2d 1328 , 1340 (M.D. Fla. 2002) (noting that photocopies must be "necessarily obtained" and that "the burden of establishing entitlement to photocopying expenses lies with the prevailing party").\
Procaps contends that the electronic copying charges are not taxable under Section 1920 .\
Even where courts have awarded electronic discovery costs, Procaps argues, they have strictly limited them to certain activities. In Race Tires America, Inc. v. Hoosier Racing Tire Corp., 674 F.3d 158 (3d Cir. 2007), for example, the Third Circuit held that "Section 1920(4) authorizes only the cost of making copies," and that activities "leading up to the actual production" are not taxable. Id . "[G]athering, preserving, processing, searching, culling and extracting ESI simply do not amount to 'making copies' and would be 'untethered to the statutory mooring.'" Id. at 169-70 . The court allowed recovery only of the limited cost to convert documents to TIFF format because it was akin to photocopying.\
Patheon admits that it is seeking costs for "extracting metadata from Patheon's native files," "applying Optical Character Recognition ("OCR") to the documents," "Scan, OCR," "imaging," and "OCR/Text Extraction." [ECF No. 1023-3, \'b6\'b6 61-63].\
Procaps contends that Patheon's assertion that it incurred electronic charges in order to challenge Procaps' Highly Confidential designations is no justification for circumventing the clear mandate of Section 1920 . Procaps' position is that these costs are not taxable and should be denied.\
Neither party has relied upon an applicable United States Supreme Court or Eleventh Circuit case on the issue of what costs, if any, for electronic copying (and the steps leading up to it) are recoverable under Section 1920 . Most of the cases cited by the parties are non-binding district court cases. The parties cite a total of three appellate cases (all non-binding ones from circuits other than the Eleventh). Patheon cites one appellate [*11] case (Online DVD-Rental Antitrust Litig., a 2015 decision3) and Procaps cites two: Eolas Techs, Inc. 4 and Race Tires America, a 2011 appellate ruling.5 But Eolas is a per curium affirmed decision with no discussion or analysis.\
Although there is no United States Supreme Court case directly on point, a recent case provides guidance on how Section 1920 's costs provisions should be interpreted. The issue in Taniguchi v. Kan Pacific Saipan, Ltd., 132 S.Ct. 1997 , 182 L. Ed. 2d 903 (2012), involved Section 1920(6) , which authorizes costs reimbursement for "compensation of interpreters." The specific issue was whether this subsection covers the costs of translating documents. The Supreme Court held that the document translation costs may not be awarded under the costs statute for "compensation of interpreters." In reaching this holding, the Court emphasized several guidelines on how to interpret Section 1920 :\
First, the Court unequivocally explained that "we have never held that Rule 54(d) creates a presumption of statutory construction in favor of the broadest possible reading of the costs enumerated in \'a7 1920 ." 132 S.Ct. at 2006 .\
Second, the Court than noted that "the 'discretion granted by Rule 54(d) 6 is not a power to evade' the specific categories of costs set forth by Congress" and that it is, instead, "solely a power to decline to tax, as costs, the items enumerated in \'a7 1920 ." Id . (internal citation omitted).\
Third, the Court described its decision as being in accord with "the narrow scope of taxable costs." Id . (emphasis added).\
Fourth, the Supreme Court explained that the concept of taxable costs is "more limited" than the "everyday meaning synonymous with 'expenses,'" and then stressed that taxable costs are "limited to relatively minor, incidental expenses," which it noted was evident from the statute itself, which lists items such as clerk fees and printing expenses.\
Fifth, after noting that taxable costs are "a fraction" of the nontaxable expenses borne by litigants, it pointed out that taxable costs are "limited by statute and are modest in scope." Id . (emphasis supplied).\
Therefore, when determining whether e-discovery costs are recoverable under Section 1920 (and, if so, which ones), the Undersigned will be guided by the overarching principles outlined by the Supreme Court in Taniguchi.\
Determining "whether a particular expense falls within the purview of section 1920 , and thus may be taxed in the first place, is an issue of statutory construction, subject to de novo review." Race Tires America, 674 F.3d at 164 . The subdivision providing for an award for exemplification and copying costs has been amended only once since 1948. In 2008, the statute's reference to "copies of papers" was replaced with "the costs of making copies of any materials." Id . (emphasis in original).\
Although there are a few circuit courts which have recently analyzed the issue of whether section 1920 authorizes a costs award for different tasks and expenses associated with electronic discovery, the Eleventh Circuit is not one of them. Nevertheless, the Federal Circuit applied Eleventh Circuit law in CBT Flint Partners, LLC v. Return Path, Inc., 737 F.3d 1320 , 1325 (Fed. Cir. [*12] 2013) (applying Eleventh Circuit law as the regional circuit law). In addition, CBT Flint Partners noted that its general approach (rendered as part of a comprehensive analysis) and most of the specific applications it decided are "consistent with the analysis of other circuits that have interpreted section 1920(4) to allow for only limited recovery of the costs of electronic discovery."  Id. at 1333 .\
In addition to the factors listed above (which provide support for the Court's reliance on CBT Flint Partners, the Undersigned has carefully reviewed CBT Flint Partners), as well as the other circuit court decisions noted in this order, and I find the case to be logical, comprehensive, organized and compelling.\
Consequently, in the absence of any on-point Eleventh Circuit law, the Undersigned deems CBT Flint Partners to be the most persuasive circuit court opinion on the issue of which costs associated with electronic discovery are recoverable under Section 1920 . Therefore, the Undersigned will discuss the case in some detail and then, after flagging relevant holdings and points, apply its rules to the electronic discovery costs which Patheon has requested here under Section 1920 .\
Initially, CBT Flint Partners noted that the Eleventh Circuit had not addressed Section 1920(4) since it was amended in 2008, but it noted that the Eleventh Circuit's pre-amendment precedent "expressed the general principle that section 1920(4) 'allows recovery only for the reasonable costs of actually duplicating documents, not for the cost of gathering those documents as a prelude to duplication.'" 737 F.3d at 1326 (emphasis supplied) (citing Allen v. U.S. Steel Corp., 665 F.2d 689 , 697 n.5 (5th Cir. Unit B 1982)). The Federal Circuit then noted that it would be interpreting Section 1920(4) in accordance with the Eleventh Circuit's principle, "making necessary allowances for the inherent differences between paper and electronic documents." Id. Consistent with that approach, the CBT Flint Partners court also explained that the process leading up to the 2008 amendment "tends to suggest that the change was modest rather than dramatic in its bottom-line effect on litigants." Id. \
Significantly, the Court noted that recoverable costs under Section 1920(4) are those "necessary to duplicate an electronic document in as faithful and complete a manner as required by rule, by court order, by agreement of the parties, or otherwise."  Id. at 1328. To the extent a party is obligated to produce electronic documents in a particular format, the costs to make duplicates in that format are recoverable. However, the Court held that "only the costs of creating the produced duplicates are included, not a number of preparatory or ancillary costs commonly incurred leading up to, in conjunction with, or after duplication." Id. (emphasis supplied).\
In order to determine which costs associated with electronic discovery are recoverable, the court divided the process into three stages and then analyzed specific steps in each stage. Regardless of which precise discovery-related task was being evaluated, [*13] however, the Court held fast to basic rules: (1) costs incurred in preparing to copy are not recoverable, (2) a requester's demands for activities other than making copies "does not bring those non-copying activities within the provision," (3) courts should use "common sense judgment guided by a comparison with the paper-document analogue," (4) the mere fact that a process "may well be valuable to both sides in making post-copying review more efficient" is insufficient to change the rule that it is not a cost of "making copies,"7 and (5) the costs of copying responsive documents to production media are recoverable under Section 1920(4).\
The Court gave a concrete example of how to use common use and how to analogize to the paper version by discussing whether decryption is recoverable. Decryption of a document stored in encrypted form may be necessary to make a final production copy viewable by the requester, but that decryption cost is not recoverable. The Court compared the process to a scenario where a party decided to store paper documents securely by placing them in a safe in a remote location. The party's expenses in removing those paper documents from security -- traveling to the remote location, retrieving the documents and getting them to a duplication machine - - would "not naturally constitute 'making copies.'"  Id. at 1331. Therefore, the Court held, decryption of electronic documents would likewise not constitute making copies (and would not be a recoverable cost).\
Although the CBT Flint Partners Court did not render final decisions on every type of cost associated with electronic discovery, it did make the following determinations:\
1. Formatting is a recoverable cost (i.e., converting documents to a uniform production format (such as TIFF).\
2. If a party is required to create an image of the original source first and then apply special techniques to extract documents while preserving all associated metadata, then those costs are recoverable.8 \
3. Costs incurred in preparing to copy, such as source code planning, are not recoverable.\
4. Tasks such as project management, keyword searching, statistical previews auditing and logging of files and extraction of proprietary data" are not recoverable because they are not the costs of making copies. Instead, they are "part of the large body of discovery obligations" which Congress did not include in section 1920(4).\
5. Costs incurred in acquiring, installing and configuring a data-hosting server are not recoverable.\
6. Deduplication (i.e., the culling of a set of documents to eliminate duplicate copies of the same document) is not covered by Section 1920(4).\
7. Costs for the creation of "load files" are covered to the extent that the files contain information required by the requested production. [The Court explained that some of the basic information in load files is comparable to the slip sheets used to separate distinct documents in a paper production].\
As outlined in the Klisch declaration, Patheon recognized that certain electronic discovery costs were not recoverable under Section 1920[*14] and therefore removed those costs. Thus, in paragraph 61 [ECF No. 1023-3, p. 20], Patheon explains, through the declaration, that it is removing duplicate documents and culling documents that are not taxable, but it takes the position that extracting metadata from its native files and applying optical character recognition to the documents without searchable text are recoverable costs.\
CBT Flint Partners does not discuss the use of optical character recognition and therefore did not decide whether those costs are recoverable. Race Tires does not permit a cost reimbursement for optical character recognition, but Online DVD Rental would permit recovery. 779 F.3d 917 at 931-932 . Confronted with a lack of authority from the Eleventh Circuit (or from the Federal Circuit, construing Eleventh Circuit law in CBT Flint Partners), the Undersigned will follow the fundamental principle that the costs statute is "modest" and "narrow" and limited to "relatively minor, incidental expenses" and therefore excludes the OCR costs from Patheon's costs request.\
Specific discussion of precise charges related to OCR appear in three paragraphs of the Klisch declaration -- paragraphs 61, 62 and 63. In paragraph 61, Patheon notes that the costs for applying OCR to the documents is one of two categories of expenses which created the $15,716.20 it seeks. It does not specify how much of the $15,716.20 is for the OCR, however. Paragraph 62 discusses a cost of $3,677.89, which consists of three types of processes under the category of "Scan, OCR,' one of which is OCR/Text Extraction, a process described as "making the scanned document searchable." The declaration does not pinpoint how much of the $3,677.89 is for OCR/Text Extraction, though. My review of the invoices located only one invoice using the heading "Scan, OCR," and it totaled $557.19, not $3,677.89. Finally, paragraph 63 discusses Invoice No. 005811COMB, for $3,114.88, for OCR/Text extraction.\
Based on these observations, the Undersigned will subtract the following as non-recoverable costs for OCR expenses: $3,114.88 (under paragraph 63), $3,677.89 (under paragraph 62, because Patheon did not adequately segregate the expenses and did not reference an invoice number) and $15,716.20 (under paragraph 61, because Patheon did not reference specific invoice numbers and did not otherwise meet its burden to delineate how much of a grouped total is attributable to an expense which is not a recoverable cost). Therefore, the Court's reduction for electronic copying is $22,508.97, leaving a recoverable cost of $10,789.66 for electronic copying.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 D. Interpreters 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Patheon seeks $3,505 for interpreters. Procaps does not oppose this request, noting that Patheon provided sufficient documentation. Nevertheless, Procaps asks the Court to use its discretion and deny the costs pending the outcome of its appeal of the adverse summary judgment ruling. Although the Court stayed the request for attorney's fees and non-taxable costs, it denied the motion on taxable costs. Therefore, the Court awards Patheon $3,505.00 in costs for interpreters under Section 1920(6).[*15] \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 E. Special Master Fees 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Patheon seeks $26,935.86 as a cost reimbursement, which represents its 25% payment of the Special Master's fees. Procaps opposes the request on several grounds, but does not challenge the Court's legal authority to assess the costs. Section 1920(6) provides for a costs recovery for "compensation for court appointed experts."\
There is no doubt that the Court has authority to split the master's fees during the litigation but award the prevailing party an award for its share of those fees as a costs item to the prevailing party at the end of the case. Fulton Fed. Sav, & Loan Ass'n of Atlanta v. Am. Ins. Co., 143 F.R.D. 292 , 296 (N.D. Ga. 1991). On the other hand, there is also no doubt that Section 1920 provides that the Court "may" award some or all of the designated costs to the prevailing party -- which means that the language is construed "solely [as] a power to decline to tax[.]" Taniguchi, 132 S.Ct. at 2006 (emphasis added).\
In the Order appointing the Special Master, the Undersigned explained that it was Procaps' failure to timely implement a litigation hold and to adequately search for ESI that generated the need for a forensic analysis. Nevertheless, I then noted that it was "both parties' inability to agree on even the most basic points which is partially responsible for the ongoing disputes concerning the forensic analysis." [ECF No. 558, pp. 10-11]. Although I directed a 75% (for Procaps) and 25% (for Patheon) allocation of payment responsibility for these fees, I also mentioned that a party could seek reimbursement at the end of the case as the prevailing party. However, I also specifically noted that "by providing this opportunity, the Court is not indicating or signaling a positon on whether Procaps or Patheon would be entitled to recover their portion of these fees and costs . . . as a prevailing party."\
I see no need at this point to change the payment allocation by adding Patheon's 25% payments to a costs award, and I therefore exercise discretion to exclude that from a costs award under Section 1920 . This ruling does not in any way constitute a ruling on whether Patheon is entitled to recover its portion of the special master's fees as a non-taxable cost (under other theories) should it prevail on Procaps' appeal of the summary judgment order and related final judgment.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 INTEREST
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Patheon asks that the costs award bear interest from the date of the original final judgment (i.e., October 29, 2015). "When a district court taxes costs against a losing party, the award of costs bears interest from the date of the original judgment." BankAtlantic v. Blythe Eastman Paine Webber, Inc., 12 F.3d 1045 , 1052 (11th Cir. 1994). See also Monelus v. Tocodrian, Inc., 609 F. Supp. 2d 1328 , 1339 (S.D. Fla. 2009) (entering interest on costs award in favor of defendant after the Court granted its summary judgment motion and entered a final judgment).9 The interest rate applicable for the week ending October 23, 2015 was 0.23%, so the costs award shall bear interest at that rate, calculated from October 29, 2015).\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 CONCLUSION
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 For the reasons stated above, the Undersigned grants in part Patheon's motion (i.e., its bill of costs) and awards Patheon $173,480.80 in costs, an amount which [*16] is $52,183.61 less than requested).\
DONE AND ORDEED in Chambers, in Miami, Florida, February 2, 2016.\
/s/ Jonathan Goodman\
Jonathan Goodman\
UNITED STATES MAGISTRATE JUDGE
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0  \uc0\u8232 \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 1\
Patheon is seeking more than $17 million attorney's fees, and this request is based on a reduced hourly fee schedule previously used by the Court. The amount of the fees request is one illustration of legal effort which Patheon put forth in defending this case, and that has a relation to the amount of costs incurred.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 2\
For example, paragraph 54 of Mr. Klisch's declaration discusses an invoice, as follows: "Invoice 24-26935, in the amount of $3,126.30 was incurred because the Court ordered Patheon to deliver additional paper courtesy copies of its summary judgment materials, bound and tabbed. DE 933. This invoice represents (1) one copy of Patheon's second motion for summary judgment and exhibits that Patheon submitted to the Court's law clerk; (2) three copies of Patheon's reply in support of its second motion for summary judgment, which Patheon submitted to the Court, the Court's law clerk, and the clerk; and (3) four copies of the legal authority cited in Patheon's second motion for summary judgment, which Patheon submitted to the Court, the Court's law clerk, Procaps, and Patheon retained one copy for itself. Exhibit 25. This includes the cost of making black and white copies at $0.12 per page, making color copies at $0.35 per page, and the cost of binders and tabs. Id. Color copies were necessary because the Court specifically requested that the parties highlight relevant case law. See DE 933."\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 3\
779 F.3d 914 , 927-28 (9th Cir. 2015).\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 4\
521 F. App'x 928 (Fed. Cir. 2013).\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 5\
674 F.3d 158 (3d Cir. 2007).\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 6\
Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 54(d) provides in relevant part: "Unless a federal statute, these rules, or a court order provides otherwise, costs \'97 other than attorney's fees -- should be allowed to the prevailing party." In Taniguchi, the Supreme Court noted that section 1920 defines the term "costs" as used in Rule 54(d) . 132 S.Ct. at 2001 . It also noted that it previously "rejected the view that 'the discretion granted by Rule 54(d) is a separate source of power to tax as costs expenses not enumerated in \'a7 1920 .'" Id . \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 7\
See also Finnerty v. Stiefel Laboratories, Inc., 900 F. Supp. 2d 1317 , 1322 (S.D. Fla. 2012) (noting that "the statute enumerating taxable fees and costs is not about making an attorney's job easier").\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 8\
The Court noted that this decision "apparently differs" from the Third Circuit's decision in Race Tires, but then explained that it thinks its rule of inclusion is "the better application of the principle that governs in the Eleventh Circuit."  Id. at 1333 .\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 9\
The final judgment in Monelus [ECF No. 41, Dec. 16, 2008] was the judgment used to calculate when the interest started. It did not include a money judgment, a status which is fundamentally at odds with Procaps' argument that interest is allowed only on a money judgment and that the final judgment against Procaps cannot support an interest award on costs because the initial final judgment entered in October 2015 was not a money judgment.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb566\sa1133\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0          
\f0\fs42 General Information\

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 Judge(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Jonathan Goodman\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Related Docket(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 1:12-cv-24356 (S.D. Fla.);\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Topic(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Civil Procedure; Tax & Accounting\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Date Filed\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 2016-02-02 00:00:00\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Parties\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 PROCAPS S.A., Plaintiff, v. PATHEON INC., Defendant.\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Court\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 United States District Court for the Southern District of Florida\cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\li674\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\fs20 \cf0 Pagination \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 *
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 BL
\f1\fs24 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\li674\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 United States District Court, M.D. Florida \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 INDYNE, INC., Plaintiff, v. ABACUS TECHNOLOGY CORPORATION, JERRY RENINGER and MATTHEW BOYLAN, Defendants. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Case No. 6:11-cv-137-Orl-22DAB. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 February 25, 2014. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
ORDER
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\
Anne C. Conway, District Judge 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\
This cause comes before the Court for consideration of the following: 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 1. Defendants Abacus Technology Corporation, Jerry Reninger, and Matthew Boylan's ("Abacus") Second Renewed Motion for Attorney Fees and Full Costs (Doc. No. 144), filed on May 10, 2013; 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 2. Plaintiff InDyne, Inc.'s ("InDyne") Opposition to Abacus' Second Renewed Motion for Attorney Fees and Full Costs (Doc. No. 149), filed on June 7, 2013; 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 3. Abacus' Reply to InDyne's Response in Opposition for Attorney Fees and Full Costs (Doc. No. 158), filed on June 27, 2013; 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 4. Abacus' Motion for Attorney's Fees (Doc. No. 153), filed on June 12, 2013; 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 5. InDyne's Response in Opposition to Motion for Attorney Fees (Doc. No. 159), filed on July 10, 2013; 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 6. Abacus' Reply to InDyne's Response in Opposition for Attorney Fees (Doc. No. 162), filed on August 9, 2013; 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 7. InDyne's Objections to the Magistrate Judge's Report and Recommendations (Doc. No. 164), filed on December 20, 2013; 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 8. Abacus' Response to InDyne's Objection to the Magistrate Judge's Report and Recommendations (Doc. No. 165), filed on January 6, 2014; 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 9. InDyne's Motion to Strike Defendants' Response to Plaintiff's Objections (Doc. No. 166), filed on January 9, 2014; and 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 10. Abacus' Response in Opposition to InDyne's Motion to Strike Defendants' Response to Plaintiff's Objections (Doc. No. 167), filed on January 27, 2014. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 On December 6, 2013, United States Magistrate Judge Baker submitted his report recommending that Abacus' motions for attorney's fees and costs (Doc. Nos. 144, 153) be GRANTED in part. (Doc. No. 163). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 After an independent de novo review of the record in this matter, except for very minor changes in the fee calculation, the Court agrees entirely with the findings of fact and conclusions of law in the Report and Recommendation (the "R & R"). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 I. BACKGROUND 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 A. Factual Background [fn1]
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 From 2003 to 2008, InDyne contracted with NASA to deliver communications and information technology services at NASA's Kennedy Space Center ("KSC"). This contract was known as the Kennedy Integrated Communications Services ("KICS") contract. As a part of the KICS contract, InDyne utilized its Program Information Management System ("PIMS"), an umbrella system of modules for a contract environment that functions to allow program management staff and customers to see and use data in areas such as work management, work procurement, logistics, safety, and timesheets. Prior to the KICS contract, InDyne had utilized PIMS on at least five government contracts at NASA since 1996. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 InDyne wrote the source code for the PIMS modules in ColdFusion, a code language, and the PIMS software suite changed over time as InDyne developed new features for its suite of modules. The first version of PIMS ("PIMS V.1") was written in June 1997. InDyne never registered PIMS V.1with the United States Copyright Office. In fact, InDyne did not maintain a copy of PIMS V.1. The alleged second [*2] version of PIMS ("PIMS V.2"), some variation of which was used during the KICS contract, was registered with the United States Copyright Office on November 17, 2008, and InDyne claimed on the registration form that the date of first publication was August 29, 2003. On its copyright registration form, InDyne also listed PIMS V.1 as a previous version that should be excluded from copyright protection. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 InDyne relied heavily on PIMS to perform its KICS contract and constantly customized the PIMS modules to conform to the KICS contract as it did with all of its government contracts that employed PIMS. Thus, the PIMS modules were chameleon-like in nature, i.e. were constantly morphing over the years. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Unfortunately for InDyne, it failed to keep a copy of the PIMS V.2 code as it existed on the date of publication. Instead, by the time of its registration in 2008, InDyne only had some version adulterated by years of government contracts and customizations and no clear roadmap[fn2] by which to decipher what portions were paid for by which parties and what alterations were made. In fact, thirty-six percent of the alleged copyrighted PIMS V.2 code files produced in discovery have "last modified" dates after the publication date. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 At the end of the KICS contract period, NASA retained Abacus, instead of InDyne, to perform InDyne's previous functions along with additional duties under the new Information Management and Communications Service (IMCS) contract. In July 2008, during the ninety-day transition period between the contracts, NASA requested Abacus to implement an integrated portal management system similar to the one InDyne had used during the KICS contract because an imminent launch was to occur in October 2008 soon after Abacus' contract period was to begin officially. Eventually, the launch was delayed and NASA requested that Abacus make a new webpage, specifically making it compliant with the Americans with Disabilities Act. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 During the ninety-day period when Abacus was attempting to replicate InDyne's website for the fast-approaching launch, Richard Petcol, Abacus' supervisor over the initial website creation, informed others in an email titled "KICS replacement webpage" that InDyne's transition person, Jerry Reninger[fn3] ("Reninger") offered to give Abacus all of the non-proprietary source code so Abacus could "stand up" the website as quickly as possible. At that time, Reninger was working for InDyne, aiding in the transition of software to Abacus.[fn4] On September 8, 2008, Matt Boylan ("Boylan"), an Abacus expert in ColdFusion, met with Reninger because he was told that Reninger would give him access to the InDyne files needed to "stand up" the IMCS website. While in Reninger's office, Boylan stated that Reninger directed him to the directories of files that Boylan needed to copy to a thumb drive. After transferring the files from the thumb drive to his laptop, Boylan, through global changes rather than opening up each file, began rebranding the website with the IMCS logo, replacing the KICS logo. On September 18, 2008, because Boylan did [*3] not retrieve a complete set of the files during his first trip to Reninger's office, Boylan returned to Reninger's office to download the remaining files. Boylan explained that when he was copying the directories, in toto, he did not make a distinction between the directories nor did he know the specifics of each directory. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 During this mass copying of the directories, Boylan and Reninger inadvertently copied onto the thumb drive some of InDyne's PIMS software, as it existed in September 2008. At the time, Reninger believed InDyne's PIMS software was proprietary. Soon after Abacus commenced its contract with NASA in October 2008, InDyne became aware of Abacus' temporary website and the copying of certain PIMS-related files. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Then, on November 17, 2008, InDyne sent to the United States Copyright Office a Request for Special Handling of its copyright request for PIMS V.2 because the work was "the subject of prospective litigation" and InDyne was "in a dispute with another party concerning unauthorized reproduction and use of the work." As a part of its application, InDyne's Chief Technology Officer, D. Fuji Nguyen, utilized for the first twenty-five pages of code filed with the United States Copyright Office a copy of the KICS PIMS V.2, as it existed at the end of the KICS contract. This copy of the KICS PIMS V.2 was saved to a server for InDyne's new contract at Cape Canaveral Air Force Station. Nguyen also pulled the last twenty-five pages for the registration from a corporate development server. Interestingly, when Nguyen provided a copy of the PIMS code during discovery from the same two servers, suddenly nineteen files contained metadata reflecting a date last modified after the November 2008 copyright registration date. Nguyen was only able to determine that fifteen of these nineteen files were last modified prior to November 2008. There is no explanation for the other four files. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 B. The Court's Summary Judgment Order
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 On June 1, 2012, the Court granted summary judgment in favor of Abacus. The Court found that Abacus had identified portions of the record, which demonstrated the absence of a genuine issue of material fact regarding the substantial similarity test component of a copyright infringement claim. As well, the Court determined that InDyne, as the non-movant bearing the burden at trial, neither showed that the record contained evidence that Abacus "overlooked or ignored" nor did InDyne come forward with additional evidence sufficient to withstand a directed verdict motion at trial based on the alleged evidentiary deficiency. Importantly, the alleged evidentiary deficiency was that InDyne failed to produce a copy of PIMS V.2, as it existed on August 29, 2003, or a copy of PIMS V.1 for comparison purposes. Without those versions of the PIMS software, a jury could not conduct the necessary substantial similarity test used to determine a copyright infringement. Thus, even drawing all inferences from the evidence in the light most favorable to InDyne, the Court found that there was no basis upon which a jury [*4] could reasonably find for InDyne and the Court entered summary judgment in Abacus' favor. (Doc. No. 113). The Eleventh Circuit affirmed. InDyne, Inc. v. Abacus Tech. Corp., 513 F.App'x 858 (11th Cir. 2013). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 C. Magistrate Judge Baker's Report and Recommendation
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Abacus, as the prevailing party in both the district and appellate courts, moved to recover its attorney's fees from InDyne pursuant to the Copyright Act, 17 U.S.C. \'a7 505. (Doc. Nos. 144, 153). On December 6, 2013, Magistrate Judge Baker submitted his report recommending that "an award of fees is warranted under the Copyright Act." (Doc. No. 163 at p. 2). 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Magistrate Judge Baker balanced the relevant factors as follows: 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 When the circumstances of the overall case are taken into consideration here, the Court finds that imposing the fees will further the goals of the Copyright Act. It was objectively unreasonable for InDyne to file suit for copyright infringement without possessing sufficient evidence of its PIMS V.2 code as it existed on the publication date (August 29, 2003) in order to prove substantial similarity between its allegedly copyrighted work and the code allegedly copied by Defendants. Compelling or assuring that plaintiffs asserting copyright claims have producible evidence of their copyrighted material before asserting their copyright claims furthers the purposes of the Copyright Act. . . . Imposing fees on Plaintiff InDyne in this case would discourage the filing of suits containing objectively unreasonable claims in which the copyright holder does not have producible evidence of the copyrighted material to prove its claim. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 ( Id. at pp. 20-21) (citations omitted). After determining that an award of fees was appropriate, Judge Baker recommended that Abacus be awarded $496,400 for attorney's fees for the district court litigation, and $100,000 for attorney's fees on appeal. ( Id. at pp. 40-41). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 D. InDyne's Motion to Strike
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 As a preliminary matter, the Court must address InDyne's motion to strike. On December 20, 2013, InDyne filed its objections to the R & R (Doc. No. 164), to which Abacus filed a response. (Doc. No. 165). Shortly thereafter, InDyne filed a Motion to Strike Abacus' Response (Doc. No. 166), arguing that (1) Abacus' response was untimely and (2) Abacus improperly raised objections to the R & R in its response. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 InDyne's first argument is without merit as it is based on a misinterpretation of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure and the Local Rules of this Court. Magistrate Judge Baker issued the R & R on December 6, 2013. (Doc. No. 163). Under the Local Rules, "Within fourteen (14) days after such service, any party may file and serve written objections thereto; and any party desiring to oppose such objections shall have fourteen (14) days thereafter within which to file and serve a written response." Local Rule 6.02(a). InDyne timely filed its objection on December 20, 2013. (Doc. No. 164). Thus, Abacus had fourteen (14) days thereafter to file and serve a response. However, per Rule 6(d), three days are added after the period for service when service is made under Rule 5(b)(which includes service by electronic means). See Fed.R.Civ. P. 6(d). Thus, three days are added [*5] after the period that would otherwise expire, i.e., January 3, 2014, and Abacus timely filed its response on January 6, 2014. (Doc. No. 165). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Next, InDyne argues that the "fees" section of Abacus' response "starts with verbiage ostensibly directed toward InDyne's objections but quickly devolves into objections" to the R & R. (Doc. No. 166 at p. 2). InDyne furthers argues that it is prejudiced by these objections because there is no procedural vehicle that InDyne may now use to properly respond. ( Id. at p. 3). In its response, Abacus does appear to raise objections to the R & R. Specifically, Abacus suggests that a ten (10) percent increase in Magistrate Judge Baker's recommendation for fees in both the trial and appellate court is "reasonable and is clearly supported by [Abacus'] expert, and the entire record." (Doc. No. 165 at p. 5). Abacus argues that InDyne "opened the door wide" for Abacus to request a modest fee increase in its response because of InDyne's "far flung challenge" to the R & R, and its "voluminous re-characterization of the case in a manner at odds with this Court's summary judgment opinion." (Doc. No. 167 at pp. 3-4). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 As the Court ultimately agrees with Judge Baker's fee analysis, this issue is mostly inconsequential; however, upon consideration, the Court will grant InDyne's Motion to Strike to the extent Abacus raises objections to the R & R's calculation of fees. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 II. INDYNE'S OBJECTIONS AND COURT'S ANALYSIS 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 A. Standard of Review
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 In the Eleventh Circuit, a district judge may accept, reject or modify a magistrate judge's report and recommendation after conducting a careful and complete review of the findings and recommendations. 28 U.S.C. \'a7 636(b)(1); Williams v. Wainwright, 681 F.2d 732, 732 (11th Cir. 1982), cert. denied, 459 U.S. 1112, 103 S.Ct. 744 (1983). A district judge must conduct a de novo review of the portions of a magistrate judge's report and recommendation to which a party objects. 28 U.S.C. \'a7 636(b)(1)(C). The district judge "may accept, reject, or modify, in whole or in part, the findings or recommendations made by the magistrate." Id. This requires that the district judge "give fresh consideration to those issues to which specific objection has been made by a party." Jeffrey S. v. State Bd. of Educ., 896 F.2d 507, 512 (11th Cir. 1990) (citing H.R. Rep. No. 94-1609, 94th Cong., 2nd Sess., reprintedin1976 U.S. Code Cong. & Admin. News 6162, 6163). A district judge reviews legal conclusions de novo, even in the absence of an objection. SeeCooper-Houston v. Southern Ry., 37 F.3d 603, 604 (11th Cir. 1994). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 B. Legal Standard for Fees Under \'a7 505
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The general rule in this country is that, unless Congress provides otherwise, parties are to bear their own attorney's fees. Fogerty v.Fantasy, Inc., 510 U.S. 517, 533, 114 S.Ct. 1023, 127 L.Ed.2d 455 (1994) (citing Alyeska Pipeline Serv. Co. v. Wilderness Soc'y, 421 U.S. 240, 247, 95 S.Ct. 1612, 44 L.Ed.2d 141 (1975)). The Copyright Act provides, "In any civil action under this title, the court in its discretion may allow the recovery of full costs by or against any party. . . . Except as otherwise provided by this title, the court may also award a reasonable attorney's fee to the prevailing party as part of the costs." 17 U.S.C. \'a7 505. The Supreme Court has stated that for the purposes of \'a7 505 "[p]revailing plaintiffs and prevailing defendants are to be treated alike, but attorney's fees are to be awarded to prevailing parties [*6] only as a matter of the court's discretion." Fogerty, 510 U.S. at 534. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 In exercising this discretion, the district court "should consider not whether the losing party can afford to pay the fees but whether imposition of fees will further the goals of the Copyright Act." Mitek Holdings, Inc. v. Arce Eng'g Co., 198 F.3d 840, 843(11th Cir. 1999) (quoting Fogerty, 510 U.S. at 526-27). A court may consider several non-exclusive factors in its determination whether to award prevailing party attorney fees such as "frivolousness, motivation, objective unreasonableness (both in the factual and in the legal components of the case) and the need in particular circumstances to advance considerations of compensation and deterrence." Fogerty, 510 U.S. at 534 n.19 (quoting Lieb v.Topstone Indus., Inc., 788 F.2d 151, 156 (3d Cir. 1986)). As these factors are non-exclusive, not every factor must weigh in favor of the prevailing party and the Court may also consider other factors as well. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 C. Abacus is the Prevailing Party
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Inasmuch as InDyne argues that Abacus is not a "prevailing party" because it "did not prevail on the merits" (Doc. No. 164 at p. 1),[fn5] instead "escaping" and "avoiding" liability ( id. at pp. 1-2) due to a "technical defense" ( id. at p. 2), the Court disagrees. On June 1, 2012, the Court granted summary judgment in favor of Abacus and thereafter the Eleventh Circuit affirmed. Therefore, Abacus is clearly the prevailing party. SeeBridgeport Music, Inc. v. Diamond Time, Ltd., 371 F.3d 883, 894 (6th Cir. 2004) ("[W]hen a defendant succeeds in having summary judgment entered in its favor on the copyright infringement claims asserted against it, that defendant can only be described as having 'prevailed.'"). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 D. Consideration of the Non-Exclusive Factors
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 1. Frivolousness and Objective Unreasonableness [fn6]
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 "Cases applying the objectively unreasonable standard predictably run in both directions and are highly dependent on case specific facts and circumstances." Corwin v. Walt Disney World Co., 6:02-cv-1377-Orl-19KRS, [2008 BL 306232], 2008 WL 754697, at *7 (M.D. Fla. Mar. 18, 2008), adopted at 6:02-cv-1377-Orl-19KRS, (Doc. No. 357). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The Second Circuit has recognized that "objective reasonableness is a factor that should be given substantial weight in determining whether an award of attorneys' fees is warranted" because "the imposition of a fee award against a copyright holder with an objectively reasonable litigation position will generally not promote the purposes of the Copyright Act." Matthew Bender & Co. v. West Publ'g Co., 240 F.3d 116, 122 (2d Cir. 2001); see also Baker v. Urban Outfitters, Inc., 431 F.Supp.2d 351, 357 (S.D. N.Y. 2006), aff'd, 249 F.App'x 845 (2nd Cir. 2007). "This is because such attorney fee awards may chill litigation of close cases, preventing the clear demarcation of the boundaries of copyright law." Ariel (UK) Ltd. v.Reuters Group PLC, No. 05 Civ. 9646, [2007 BL 220637], 2007 WL 194683, at *1 (S.D. N.Y. Jan. 24, 2007) (citations omitted). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The district court in Chivalry Film Productions v. NBC Universal, Inc.generally discussed the reasoning behind the award of fees to a prevailing defendant in various post-Fogerty "objectively unreasonable" cases: 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The mere fact that a defendant has prevailed, however, does not necessarily equate with an objectively unreasonable claim. To hold otherwise would establish a per se entitlement [*7] of attorney's fees whenever issues pertaining to judgment are resolved against a copyright plaintiff. . . . This is not a correct construction of the law. Similarly, the fact that a defendant has prevailed on a motion to dismiss or on summary judgment does not require the court to award fees. However, if a copyright claim is clearly without merit or otherwise patently devoid of legal or factual basis, that claim ought to be deemed objectively unreasonable, and an award of fees and costs is then proper. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 . . . . 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Moreover, although the plaintiff in this case did not engage in a campaign of vexatious litigation, the need for deterrence against objectively unreasonable copyright claims is significant. Just as attorney fee awards may chill litigation of close cases, preventing the clear demarcation of the boundaries of copyright law, the denial of such awards in objectively unreasonable cases also disserves the purposes of copyright law, by failing to protect the owners of valid copyrights from the cost of frivolous litigation. Furthermore, the denial of fees and costs to a prevailing defendant in an objectively unreasonable copyright case may spur additional frivolous lawsuits, of exactly the sort that an award of fees and costs is designed to chill. Future litigants should be discouraged from comparable behavior. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 No. 05 Civ. 5627(GEL), [2007 BL 157056], 2007 WL 4190793, at *2-3 (S.D. N.Y. 2007) (internal quotation marks and citations omitted). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Here, after reviewing this Court's analysis of the Abstraction-Filtration-Comparison test, as articulated in ComputerAssociates International v. Altai, Inc., 982 F.2d 693 (2d Cir. 1992), Judge Baker concluded, "[i]t was objectively unreasonable for InDyne to file suit for copyright infringement without possessing sufficient evidence of its PIMS V.2 code as it existed on the publication date (August 29, 2003) in order to prove substantial similarity between its allegedly copyrighted work and the code allegedly copied by Defendants." (Doc. No. 163 at p. 14). The undersigned judge agrees with this analysis. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Judge Baker's finding was based on the Court's previous holding that InDyne had not and could not possibly proffer evidence of PIMS V.1 or the August 2003 PIMS V.2. Once again, InDyne, referencing Montgomery v. Noga, 168 F.3d 1282 (11th Cir. 1999), argues that it could overcome this deficiency because the company "believed it could prove up the protectable portions of its source code based on testimony as to the changes in the source code over time." (Doc. No. 164 at p. 14). However, the Court previously distinguished Montgomery from the instant case and determined that it is inapplicable: 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 In Montgomery, the Eleventh Circuit was able to find that [a specific version of computer software] "contained several additions and corrections that were not present in [a prior version]" and was able to cite a clear revision history for support. However, in the case at bar, there is no copy of PIMS V.1 or a clear revision history or even the August 2003 PIMS V.2 from which to compare the alleged differences in the CDs produced during discovery. Unlike the Montgomery court, this [*8] Court has no basis to find that the additions and corrections from PIMS V.1 were sufficiently original. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 (Doc. No. 113 at p. 20) (citations omitted). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Next, InDyne objects because the R & R "notes this Court's reliance upon the Airframe Systems [, Inc. v. L-3 Communications Corporation, 658 F.3d 100(1st Cir. 2011),] decision and appears to assume that decision put InDyne on notice that it could not sustain a copyright claim absent the ability to produce the PIMS source code as of the date of first publication." (Doc. No. 164 at p. 14). InDyne argues that the R & R fails to mention that the Airframe decision was issued after InDyne filed this suit and thus could not have informed InDyne's decision whether or not to proceed. ( Id. at pp. 14-15). However, this argument is unavailing because the Airframe Systemsdecision supports the argument that Montgomery is inapplicable. Further, that decision did not alter copyright law in any significant way and the Court's application of Airframe Systems to the facts of this case did not "clarify the boundaries of copyright law," as InDyne suggests. On this topic, the Court also rejects InDyne's repeated assertions that the Court created a "heightened" or "new" standard, imposing a "per se rule requiring preservation of source code as it existed on the publication date listed in its copyright registration in order to sue for infringement of that copyright." (Doc. No. 164 at p. 14). To the contrary, the Court merely applied the law to the facts of this case. InDyne simply could not carry its burden because it failed to produce a copy of PIMS V.2, as it existed on August 29, 2003, or a copy of PIMS V.1 for comparison purposes. See also(Doc. No. 113 at p. 14) ("However, because there is no copy of PIMS V.1 or PIMS V.2 as it existed on its publication date, the golden nugget [of core protectable expression] is so obscured that not even a famed 49er, with herculean effort, could uncover it."); ( id. at pp. 18-19) ("In laymen terms, the PIMS code produced by InDyne in the present case is like a secret code without the secret decoder ring."). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Finally, InDyne suggests that none of the cases cited in the R & R support the conclusion that the filing of this case was objectively unreasonable because "none of those lawsuits involved the theft of proprietary source code by the defendant" or "involved extortionate behavior." (Doc. No. 164 at p. 16 n.6). However, this objection \'97 that the R & R failed to cite to a case with precisely the same facts as the present case \'97 is not well-taken because, as the Court previously noted, cases applying this standard are highly dependent on case-specific facts and circumstances. Corwin v. WaltDisney World Co., [2008 BL 306232], 2008 WL 754697, at *7. As for InDyne's objection that this case does not fit within the "extreme fact patterns" of objectively unreasonable cases cited in the R & R, the Court finds it to be without merit for the same reason. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 In short, it was objectively unreasonable for InDyne to file a copyright infringement claim even though it did not have a copy of the copyrighted material, i.e. PIMS V.1 or a clear revision history of the August 2003 PIMS V.2, to support its basic claims. This factor weighs [*9] heavily in favor of an award of fees. See Matthew Bender, 240 F.3d at 122 ("objective reasonableness is a factor that should be given substantial weight in determining whether an award of attorneys' fees is warranted."). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 2. Motivation
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Regarding this factor, Abacus suggests that InDyne had a questionable motivation in filing and pursuing this case. (Doc. No. 144 at p. 10). Abacus claims that the "context in which [InDyne] filed and pursued this claim suggests that [InDyne's] primary motivation was, at least in substantial part, to attempt to overwhelm a smaller competitor." ( Id.). To support this contention, Abacus argues that despite the lack of any evidence that Abacus used any software code for any commercial purpose, coupled with Abacus' voluntary return of all allegedly infringing code and InDyne's pursuing this case without a copy of the software code allegedly infringed upon, InDyne aggressively pursued this case. ( Id.). InDyne responds that its primary motive in bringing this suit was to stop the further spread of source code, and that it only filed suit as its last recourse. (Doc. No. 164 at p. 17). InDyne claims that it only brought suit after it was misled about the copying of the PIMS source code and after a forensic report indicated that the code may have been copied elsewhere. ( Id.). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The Court agrees with Abacus and the Magistrate Judge's conclusion that InDyne may have begun with altruistic intentions toward Abacus, but by the time InDyne filed suit three years later, InDyne's motivation was questionable. This is particularly true in light of InDyne's forensic report showing that Abacus may have copied the code to additional media and the evidentiary deficiency described in detail above. Thus, Judge Baker's conclusion is not "pure speculation" as InDyne complains; rather it is supported by the Court's previous findings and the record before the Magistrate Judge. Thus, this factor weighs in favor of a fee award.[fn7]
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 3. Need to Advance Considerations of Compensation and Deterrence
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 In considering this factor, the Magistrate Judge found, "future litigants who are copyright holders without producible evidence of their copyrighted computer source code should be deterred from choosing to sue for copyright infringement." (Doc. No. 163 at p. 20). InDyne objects to this conclusion because this statement "cannot be directed at InDyne." (Doc. No. 164 at p. 18). InDyne argues that such a "general deterrence" factor, as opposed to a "specific deterrence" factor against InDyne, is an inappropriate consideration in determining whether to award fees. ( Id.). This objection is also not well-taken. As InDyne points out, certain courts have used "specific deterrence" as a factor in the fee analysis. However, other courts, including this one, have found what InDyne classifies as "general deterrence" to be an appropriate factor in a court's consideration. For example, in Corwin v. Walt Disney World Co., 6:02-cv-1377-Orl-19KRS, [2008 BL 306232], 2008 WL 754697 (M.D. Fla. Mar. 18, 2008), Judge Baker stated, 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 A large multi-national corporation . . . may be viewed as a "deep pocket" and a target for many baseless or objectively unreasonable [*10] suits. Awarding fees in this case will serve as a deterrent for those plaintiffs who submit ideas that are either unsolicited and rejected but bear some resemblance (in their minds at least) to a defendant's ultimately successful idea. An award of fees in this case will also deter other individuals from sitting on their rights of enforcement for forty years or waiting to enforce their rights until so much time has passed that not a single witness exists with personal knowledge of "access" to the alleged copying. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Id. at *13, adopted at 6:02-cv-1377-Orl-19KRS, (Doc. No. 357) (Fawcett, J.); see also Amadasun v. Dreamworks, LLC, 359 F.Supp.2d 1367, 1376 (N.D. Ga. 2005) ("In addition, potential plaintiffs must be deterred from bringing frivolous and baseless suits. Specifically, the Court must deter plaintiffs from alleging copyright infringement when the works at issue are not even copyright protected."); Chivalry Film Prods. v. NBC Universal, Inc., 05 Civ. 5627(GEL), [2007 BL 157056], 2007 WL 4190793, at *2 (S.D. N.Y. Nov. 27, 2007) ("[T]he need for deterrence against objectively unreasonable copyright claims is significant. . . . Future litigants should be discouraged from comparable behavior."). Thus, the Court agrees with the Magistrate Judge and this factor also weighs in favor of an award of fees. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 4. Balancing the Factors
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Considering all the factors, the Court concludes that "imposition of fees will further the goals of the Copyright Act." Mitek Holdings, Inc. v. ArceEng'g Co., 198 F.3d 840, 843 (11th Cir. 1999). While it does not appear that InDyne's claims can be considered entirely frivolous, the Court agrees with the Magistrate Judge that it was objectively unreasonable for InDyne to file suit without possessing sufficient evidence of its PIMS V.2 code as it existed on the publication date in order to prove substantial similarity. Further, InDyne may have begun with altruistic intentions toward Abacus, but by the time InDyne filed suit three years later, InDyne's motivation was questionable. Finally, future litigants who are copyright holders without producible evidence of their copyrighted computer source code should be deterred from choosing to sue for copyright infringement. On balance, the factors weigh in favor of an imposition of fees. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 III. CALCULATION OF THE FEES 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Abacus initially requested $1,470,832.31 for fees in connection with work in the district court litigation (Doc. No. 144) and $228,229.27 in connection with work related to the case on appeal. (Doc. No. 153).[fn8] In response, InDyne suggested a fee of $500,521.71 as appropriate for work in the district court (Doc. No. 149), and $75,005 in fees for work related to the appeal. (Doc. No. 159). Judge Baker ultimately recommended that Abacus be awarded $496,400 for attorney's fees for the district court litigation, and $100,000 for attorney's fees on appeal. (Doc. No. 163 at pp. 40-41). Judge Baker also recommended that the Court decline Abacus' request for other costs[fn9] incurred during the litigation and appeal related to computerized research, e-discovery, copying, travel expenses, postage, and forensic experts. (See Doc. No. 163 at pp. 39-40).[fn10]
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 InDyne raises two objections to the fee calculation. Both will [*11] be overruled. First, InDyne argues that due to a "clerical error", the Magistrate Judge miscalculated the total adjusted amount of fees for attorney Todd Pittenger. (Doc. No. 164 at p. 20). To be sure, there is a discrepancy between the Magistrate Judge's fee calculation table for Mr. Pittenger's work and a footnote providing clarification on that calculation. (See Doc. No. 163 at p. 37). However, when put into context with the overall discussion, it is clear that the "market rate of $300 per hour for senior partner level work" in the footnote ( id. at n.10) is nothing more than a typographical error. Mr. Pittenger's rates as calculated in the table at $400 per hour for 113 hours and $200 per hour for 28 hours are correct.[fn11]
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Second, the Court rejects InDyne's argument that attorney Stephen Kong's time should be excluded entirely. On this issue, the Magistrate Judge found: 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 With the exception of certain redacted entries, the Pillsbury attorneys and local counsel at Lowndes/Akerman have done a reasonably good job of describing the specific tasks performed and the general scope of the litigation. As argued by InDyne, Mr. Kong's descriptions, however, are vague, generic, and fail to give sufficient detail in order for the Court to determine if the work was reasonable. InDyne's arguments about Mr. Kong's involvement and need for supervision, or revision to his work, are well-taken. While there is some justification for involving more than one law firm, the use of so many different billing timekeepers is unsupported. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 (Doc. No. 163 at p. 35). In light of this conclusion, InDyne now argues that Mr. Kong's time should be completely removed from the calculus. The Court does not agree and finds that further reduction of Mr. Kong's fees is not warranted. After review of Abacus' counsel's fees, the Court finds a reduction of Mr. Kong's fees by 80% is appropriate in light of the redundancies and duplication outlined in the R & R and Abacus' filings. SeeNorman v. Housing Auth. of City of Montgomery, 836 F.2d 1292, 1301 (11th Cir. 1988) ("In the final analysis, exclusions for excessive or unnecessary work on given tasks must be left to the discretion of the district court."). 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Finally, the Court notes InDyne's initial assertion that, if the Court determines Abacus is entitled to a fee award, "the appropriate total fee award is $500,521.71." (Doc. No. 149 at p. 25). Having conceded that a higher fee than Judge Baker ultimately recommends is appropriate, the Court is not persuaded to further reduce the amount. Therefore, the Court finds the following to be an appropriate award to Abacus for attorneys' fees in the district court.[fn12]
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\b\fs20 \cf0 Attorney (years. in Practice as of 2012) Allowed Rates Claimed Hours Reduction Allowed hours Adjusted amount
\b0  Jo\'cbl Van Over (25+) 80% of hours 20% of hours 400 200 916[fn13] 25% 550 137 $220,000 27,400 Kelly Craven (6) 200 129 25% 97 $19,400 Evan Wesser (4) 200 392 25% 294[fn14] $58,800 Kristen Baker (3) 200 252 25% 189 $37,800 Stephen Kong (18) 200 1717 80% 343 $68,600 Todd Pittenger (24) 80% of hours 20% of hours 400 200 157 10% 113 28 $45,200 $5,600 Angela Miller (Sr. Assoc.) 200 9 10% 8 $1,600 Megan Devault (11) 300 42 10% 38 $11,400 Joshua Mize (2) 200 4 10% 4 $800 TOTAL 3,618 1,801 $496,600 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0

\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 After [*12] de novo review, other than the very minor changes to the fee calculation noted above, the Court finds the Magistrate Judge's legal reasoning and factual findings are correct and adopts the same rationale set forth in the R & R. Accordingly, Defendants are awarded attorney's fees against InDyne for the district court litigation in the amount of $496,600, augmented by interest at the federal judgment rate from the time Defendants originally filed their Motion for Attorney's Fees on June 18, 2012. For the appeal, Defendants are awarded attorney's fees against InDyne in the amount of $100,000,[fn15] augmented by interest at the federal judgment rate from the time Defendants originally filed their Motion for Attorney's Fees in the Eleventh Circuit Court of Appeals on April 24, 2013. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 IV. CONCLUSION 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Therefore, based on the foregoing, it is ORDERED as follows: 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 1. Magistrate Judge Baker's Report and Recommendations (Doc. No. 163), filed on December 6, 2013, is ADOPTED and CONFIRMED and is made a part of this Order. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 2. InDyne's Motion to Strike Defendants' Response to Plaintiff's Objections (Doc. No. 166), filed on January 9, 2014, is GRANTED in part.
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 3. Defendants Abacus Technology Corporation, Jerry Reninger, and Matthew Boylan's Response in Opposition to InDyne's Objections to the Report and Recommendation (Doc. No. 165), filed on January 6, 2014, is STRICKEN to the extent Abacus raises objections to the calculation of attorney's fees. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 4. Defendants Abacus Technology Corporation, Jerry Reninger, and Matthew Boylan's Second Renewed Motion for Attorney Fees and Full Costs (Doc. No. 144), filed on May 10, 2013, is GRANTED in part. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 5. Defendants Abacus Technology Corporation, Jerry Reninger, and Matthew Boylan's Motion for Attorney's Fees (Doc. No. 153), filed on June 12, 2013, is GRANTED in part. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 6. InDyne's Objections to the Magistrate Judge's Report and Recommendations (Doc. No. 164), filed on December 20, 2013, are OVERRULED. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 7. Attorney's fees are awarded in favor of Defendants Abacus Technology Corporation, Jerry Reninger, and Matthew Boylan, and against Plaintiff InDyne, Inc. for the district court litigation in the amount of $496,600, plus interest at the then-prevailing federal judgment rate of .18% from the date Defendants originally filed their Motion for Attorney's fees (Doc No. 117) on June 18, 2012, which results in a per diem rate of $2.45, for a total prejudgment interest amount of $1,511.65. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 8. Attorney's fees for the appeal are awarded in favor of Defendants Abacus Technology Corporation, Jerry Reninger, and Matthew Boylan, and against Plaintiff InDyne, Inc. in the amount of $100,000, plus interest at the then-prevailing federal judgment rate of .13% from the time Defendants filed their Motion for Attorney's Fees in the Eleventh Circuit (Doc. No. 153), on April 24, 2013, which results in a per diem rate of $.36, for a total prejudgment interest amount of $110.52. 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 9. The Clerk is SHALL ENTER a final judgment as follows: Defendants Abacus Technology Corporation, Jerry Reninger, and Matthew Boylan are awarded attorney's fees in the amount of $596,600.00 against Plaintiff, InDyne Inc., along with prejudgment [*13] interest in the amount of $1,622.17, for a total sum of $598,222.17. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 DONE and ORDERED.
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn1] This background is largely taken from the Court's previous Order granting summary judgment in favor of Abacus. (Doc. No. 113) (internal citations and some footnotes omitted); InDyne, Inc. v. Abacus Tech. Corp., 876 F.Supp.2d 1278 (M.D. Fla. 2012), aff'd, 513 F.App'x 858 (11th Cir. 2013). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn2] The Issue Tracker, InDyne's intranet application used by corporate IT to log software requests, did not provide a system during code development of the KICS contract that would track the checking-in and checking-out of code. Moreover, the Issue Tracker was not active during the first 15 months of the KICS contract. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn3] During the transition period, Jerry Reninger accepted a position with Abacus under the IMCS contract. Multiple deponents testified that switching to different companies because of new contracts was not uncommon at NASA. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn4] As a part of the transition from InDyne to Abacus, InDyne was contractually obligated to provide Abacus all software and data NASA had the right to use or owned, and InDyne was to provide Abacus a list of software packages used by KICS personnel. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn5] See also (Doc. No. 164 at p. 19) ("In this case, Defendants did not prevail on the merits."). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn6] The Magistrate Judge found that "it does not appear that InDyne's claims can be considered frivolous." (Doc. No. 163 at p. 9). InDyne does not object to this conclusion and the Court need not address it any further until the final weighing of the factors. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn7] Even if this factor were neutral or weighed slightly in favor of InDyne, the Court would find that the other factors still weigh in favor of an award of fees in this case. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn8] Like the Magistrate Judge, the undersigned judge also notes that Abacus' filings contain insufficient discussion as to why such a large fee can be justified in a case that was decided at summary judgment. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn9] Costs permitted under 28 U.S.C. \'a7 1920 were previously taxed against InDyne in the amount of $33,844.40. (See Doc. Nos. 125, 129). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn10] Neither party objects to this recommendation. The Court agrees that further award of costs is inappropriate and does not discuss the issue further. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn11] Even if this were not a typographical error, the Court would find $400 per hour to be the correct rate to apply to the 113 total hours of senior partner level work for Mr. Pittenger. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn12] All figures in this chart are rounded to the nearest whole number. For example, attorney Joshua Mize's 4 "claimed hours" was reduced by 10%, resulting in 3.6 hours. This figure was then rounded up to 4 hours in the "allowed hours" column. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn13] The Court notes that this figure differs from the R & R. Attorney Jo\'cbl Van Over's claimed hours totals 915.5. (See Doc. No. 144-2 at p. 7). This figure is rounded to 916 claimed hours; however, the resulting adjusted amounts for attorney Van Over are not changed by this alteration. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn14] This figure also differs slightly from the R & R. After reducing attorney Evan Wesser's 392 claimed hours by 25%, the total allowed hours is 294, resulting in a total adjusted amount of $58,800 and not $58,600. The corresponding figures in the table are altered to reflect this minor change. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn15] Neither party objected to this recommendation. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb566\sa1133\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0          
\f0\fs42 General Information\

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 Judge(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Anne C. Conway\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Related Docket(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 6:11-cv-00137 (M.D. Fla.);\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Topic(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Civil Procedure; Damages & Remedies; Copyright Law\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Industries\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Information Technology\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Date Filed\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 2014-02-25 00:00:00\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Parties\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 INDYNE, INC., Plaintiff, v. ABACUS TECHNOLOGY CORPORATION, JERRY RENINGER and MATTHEW BOYLAN, Defendants.\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Case Type\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 SO\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Court\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 United States District Court for the Middle District of Florida\cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\li674\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\fs20 \cf0 Pagination \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 *
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 BL
\f1\fs24 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\li674\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 United States District Court, S.D. Florida \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 PROCAPS S.A., Plaintiff, v. PATHEON INC., Defendant. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 CASE NO. 12-24356-CIV-GOODMAN [CONSENT CASE]. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 February 28, 2014. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
ORDER GRANTING DEFENDANT'S MOTION FOR A FORENSIC ANALYSIS OF PLAINTIFF'S  ELECTRONIC MEDIA 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\
Jonathan Goodman, Magistrate Judge 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\
In the 1967 film Cool Hand Luke, the Captain, a prison warden played by actor Strother Martin, beats Luke, a prisoner played by Paul Newman, and says, "[w]hat we've got here is [a] failure to communicate." 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Although this movie quote was first uttered 45 years before Plaintiff Procaps S.A. ("Procaps") filed its lawsuit against Defendant Patheon Inc. ("Patheon"), it may well explain, at least in part, a discovery collection effort which Patheon describes as "shockingly deficient" and a discovery shortfall Patheon brands as a "wholesale failure to preserve potentially relevant information or conduct a proper document collection, search or production process." [ECF Nos. 301, p. 4; 318, p. 2]. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 By way of introductory summary, Procaps is seeking more than $350 million in damages from Patheon in this federal antitrust lawsuit it filed in December 2012, but it did not implement a formal litigation hold as of February 27, 2014, when this Court ordered one to be implemented in response to Patheon's motion. [ECF No. 324]. Procaps' United States lawyers never traveled to Colombia (where Procaps is based) to meet with Procaps' information technology ("IT") team (or other executives) to discuss how relevant or responsive electronically stored information ("ESI") would be located, and it did not retain an ESI retrieval consultant to help Procaps implement a litigation hold or to search for relevant ESI and documents. It seems as though some critical Procaps executives and employees conducted their own searches for ESI and documents without ever seeing Patheon's document request or without receiving a list of search terms from its counsel. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Procaps' counsel now concedes that, in retrospect, the document and ESI search was inadequate, thus confirming the applicability of the "[b]ut I still haven't found/what I'm looking for" lyric from the hit U2 song.[fn1]Despite this concession, Procaps' counsel (1) contends that it had several conversations about discovery with its client, (2) notes that an attachment to the November 2012 engagement letter explained the need to preserve materials, (3) argues that there has been no showing that any ESI or documents have been deleted or destroyed as a result of the no litigation hold status, and (4) suggests that employees may not have understood deposition questions when they testified that they generated their own search terms without specific instructions from counsel. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Patheon's critical description of Procaps' discovery response arises in connection with its Motion for a Forensic Analysis of Procaps' Electronic Media. [ECF Nos. 301; 302]. The Court has considered Patheon's motion, Procaps' response in opposition, Patheon's reply, and the relevant portions of the record, and held a multi hour hearing on the motion. [ECF Nos. 313; 318; 325]. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Although [*2] Procaps agreed to a forensic analysis by an outside vendor specializing in ESI retrieval, the parties did not agree on the scope of the analysis or on other significant components, such as whether certain conclusions reached by the outside ESI vendor would be shared with Patheon. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 As explained below, the Court grants the motion and awards Patheon reasonable attorney's fees in the amount of $24,115.[fn2]
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 I. BACKGROUND & DISCUSSION
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Patheon and Procaps entered into a Collaboration Agreement to work together to produce and market a brand of softgels. A few months later, Patheon acquired Procaps' main competitor, Banner Pharmcaps Europe B.V. ("Banner"). Procaps filed this lawsuit alleging that when Patheon acquired Banner, it made the Collaboration Agreement illegal under state and federal antitrust and competition laws. Since the filing of the lawsuit, Procaps and Patheon have aggressively litigated this case, generating myriad discovery disputes, which, in turn, led to numerous motions, hearings, and orders. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 To support its instant motion, Patheon submitted deposition transcript excerpts from Procaps executives and employees. Those excerpts demonstrate that Procaps' counsel permitted its client to self collect ESI and documents, allowed some of its client's executives to use a single search term to collect emails, and failed to realize that its client never actually implemented the litigation hold mentioned in the attachment to the November 2012 engagement letter. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 For example, Alvaro Franco, Procaps' Director of Business Development and the primary liaison with Patheon in the Collaboration Agreement, testified that he was never given instructions on how to search for ESI and documents and decided for himself whether something was relevant. Perhaps the most important Procaps fact witness in this case, Franco searched for emails containing only the term "Patheon," a search protocol he generated himself without any assistance from counsel. He did not search for emails using other search terms (such as "Banner," "Collaboration Agreement," "softgels," "soft gels," etc.) and did nothing else to locate and collect responsive ESI and other documents. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Similarly, many of Procaps' executives, including its CEO, testified that they never saw Patheon's document requests. During a 30(b)(6) deposition, Procaps' designee said he did not know if Procaps had backup tapes or an automated deletion process and, if so, whether that process was suspended when litigation began. Another Procaps executive testified that his ESI and document collection focused only on emails to or from Patheon and did not include internal emails discussing Patheon or emails where he was copied but not directly addressed. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Although Procaps' counsel notes that a document retention policy was mentioned in an attachment to its engagement letter issued before the lawsuit was filed, several critical Procaps employees testified that they never received any instructions from counsel to retain relevant evidence. Procaps' counsel did not advise the Court [*3] about whether the attachment was circulated to employees or whether counsel ever actually discussed the attachment among executives or employees. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Patheon says it learned of these Procaps discovery practices only recently, during depositions of Procaps' executives and employees. In addition to condemning Procaps' ESI and document collection procedures, Patheon contends that the inadequate procedure has already caused several Procaps employees to not produce numerous emails between them. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Procaps' counsel stresses that there is no evidence that any ESI or other documents have been deleted or purged with no chance of being recovered. Even if true, this argument does not address the indisputable conclusion that the ESI and document searches were inadequate a scenario which strongly suggests that some (and perhaps even a significant amount of) responsive discovery from Procaps has not yet been located and mandates a comprehensive forensic search of Procaps' ESI and other sources of relevant documents. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 II. THE COURT'S RULING REGARDING THE FORENSIC EXAMINATION
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 In addition to the Court's Preliminary Order on Patheon's motion [ECF No. 324, (requiring the immediate implementation of a formal litigation hold by Procaps)], it is ORDERED and ADJUDGED as follows: 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 1. By March 4, 2014, Procaps shall engage Kroll Ontrack, Inc. ("Kroll") to conduct the forensic analysis detailed in this Order. Kroll shall be considered a neutral, third party forensic examiner and shall not be deemed an agent, representative, or expert of either Procaps or Patheon, except that Procaps shall contract directly with Kroll regarding the work to be performed pursuant to this Order. Kroll's work in connection with this Order shall not be deemed the work product of either party. However, Kroll shall execute an acknowledgement of the Court's Stipulated Order for the Protection of Confidential and Highly Confidential Information. [ECF No. 86]. Kroll shall start its work on the forensic analysis detailed in this Order as soon as practicable. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 2. The following persons shall be custodians whose paper and electronic files will be searched pursuant to this Order: Alain Cortesi, Rosella Del Vecchio Herrera, Alvaro Franco, Ted Green, Ruben Minski, Diego Monterroza, Andres Nitola, Osiris Norton, Jorge Ochoa, Carlos Salazar, Camilo Suarez, Luis Guillermo Velasquez, Alberto Ballestas, Yisell Pineda, Daniel Doria, Maurcio Anaya, Javier Otero, and Diana Correa (each a "Custodian" and, collectively "Custodians"). As set forth below, additional custodians may be identified and, once they are so identified, each shall be deemed a "Custodian" and each of their electronic and paper files will be searched pursuant to the terms of this Order. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 3. By March 7, 2014, Procaps' counsel shall interview each Custodian and identify and disclose to Patheon any other custodians, potential sources of hard copy documents or ESI that are reasonably likely to contain relevant information, including shared ESI or hard copy documents (e.g., department files). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 4. By March 11, 2014, the parties [*4] shall agree to the following: (i) a preliminary list of proposed search terms ("Search Terms") that Kroll will use to search for relevant information; (ii) a reasonable procedure by which the Search Terms may be reasonably refined, if necessary; and (iii) a suitable format for production, including the specific metadata fields to be provided. If the parties are unable to agree to the Search Terms, a procedure for reasonably refining the Search Terms, or a production format, then the parties shall immediately raise this issue with the Court. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 5. By March 12, 2014, Kroll shall interview Procaps' head of IT to understand the architecture of Procaps' computer systems and Procaps' retention/backup procedures, and, within three business days of conducting this interview, shall provide a report to both Patheon and Procaps about Kroll's findings in this regard. Procaps shall make its head of IT available for Kroll to conduct its interview. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 6. By March 14, 2014, Procaps shall make available to Kroll all of the sources of Procaps' ESI and documents that are relevant to this case ("Sources"), wherever located, including, but not limited to: 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 a) all computers used by each Custodian identified in Paragraph 2; 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 b) all mailstores for each Custodian that are maintained on any Procaps e-mail server; 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 c) all electronic storage media (e.g., thumb drives, CDs, DVDs, smart phones, etc.) used by each Custodian for any business purpose. But for each Custodian's smart phone or PDA device (e.g., I-Pad), the Custodian must have used the smart phone or PDA device for business purposes and Kroll must determine (after interviewing Procaps' head of IT) that any ESI or documents available on the smart phone or PDA device are not also fully retrievable from a common server; 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 d) any file servers/databases that are reasonably likely to contain relevant information; and 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 e) all hard copy documents in the possession, custody, or control of Procaps (including but not limited to those hard copy documents in the possession, custody, or control of each Custodian) that are reasonably likely to contain relevant information. 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Notwithstanding the foregoing, "Sources," shall not include the following databases: Salesforce.com; SAP; or Visual Enterprise. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Within three business days after completing its collection of these Sources, Kroll shall provide a report to both Patheon and Procaps that identifies all of the Sources that Kroll collected. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 7. By March 24, 2014, Kroll shall make a forensic image of each electronic source identified in Paragraph 6 of this Order. Kroll also shall scan all hard copy documents identified in Paragraph 6 of this Order. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 8. For each source of ESI identified in Paragraph 6 of this Order, Kroll shall attempt to recover any user created files that were deleted after October 22, 2012[fn3] ("Deleted Files"). By April 3, 2014, Kroll shall provide a written report to both Patheon and Procaps that identifies the file names of any of the Deleted Files that it could not recover in full, the date the Deleted Files were deleted, and from what electronic media the Deleted Files were deleted. By April 9, 2014, [*5] the parties shall file a succinct joint notice summarizing Kroll's findings regarding the Deleted Files. As used in this Order, the term "user created files" means any file created by a human being and does not include any file created by a machine or a file necessary for the normal operation of a computer system. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 9. By April 7, 2014, Kroll shall begin to run the Search Terms on all of the Deleted Files that it was able to recover and all of the Sources that Kroll collected pursuant to Paragraph 6 of this Order. By April 11, 2014, Kroll shall report to the parties how many document hits resulted from each of the Search Terms. Within two business days of receiving Kroll's report regarding the number of document hits that resulted from each of the Search Terms, the parties shall, if necessary, employ the procedure established pursuant to Paragraph 4 to reasonably refine the Search Terms. Kroll shall then re run any modified Search Terms on the Deleted Files and the Sources. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 10. Promptly after Kroll has completed the search set forth in Paragraph 9 and located the ESI and documents that contain the Search Terms ("Uncovered Documents"), Kroll shall, if possible, provide for the de duplication of exact copies of the Uncovered Documents. As used in this Order, the phrase "exact copies" refers to documents that have identical MD5 or SHA1 hash values. By April 11, 2014, Kroll shall then provide the Uncovered Documents to Procaps' counsel for further review. Kroll shall not provide the Uncovered Documents to Patheon without Procaps' prior written authorization after Procaps has reviewed the Uncovered Documents. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 11. Procaps shall use the following procedure for reviewing and producing the Uncovered Documents. Procaps may withhold from Patheon any documents that it considers privileged or work product, in which case Procaps shall create a privilege and redaction log ("Privilege Log") that complies with the requirements of Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 26. If Procaps contends that just a portion of a document is privileged, then it shall redact only that portion and produce the non privileged portion of the document to Patheon. Any redactions shall be clearly indicated on the face of the document and each page of the document from which information is redacted shall bear a designation that it has been redacted. All redactions must be logged on the Privilege Log. Procaps may also apply appropriate confidentiality designations to the Uncovered Documents pursuant to the Stipulated Order for the Protection of Confidential and Highly Confidential Information. [ECF No. 86]. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 12. By April 18, 2014, Procaps shall produce to Patheon: (a) all of the non privileged Uncovered Documents, if any, including any redacted documents; and (b) the Privilege Log identified in Paragraph 11. If the volume of Uncovered Documents is so large as to require additional time for Procaps to generate the production, prepare the necessary redactions, and generate the Privilege Log, Procaps may file a motion with the Court seeking an appropriate extension of the [*6] deadline in this Paragraph. However, the Court strongly prefers that the April 28, 2014 date the parties selected for mediation not be moved because the Uncovered Documents have not been produced or sufficiently reviewed before the mediation. Therefore, any motion to extend this deadline must be based on compelling reasons bordering on a genuine emergency. As outlined in paragraph 14, Procaps and Kroll need to take steps necessary to make sure that the deadlines are met, including, but not limited to, increasing the number of persons assigned to the project and/or increasing the hours or workload of those participating in the forensic analysis, collection, retrieval, review, and production. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 13. Procaps shall pay all of Kroll's fees, costs, and expenses that Kroll incurs in connection with performing its work under this Order. As set out at the hearing, the prevailing party in this litigation may seek to recover its e-discovery costs. The Court will address the issue of whether the prevailing party is entitled to recover its e-discovery costs at that time. The Court is not now ruling on whether e-discovery costs (in general) or the costs of the Kroll forensic analysis (in particular) will in fact be awarded as costs to the prevailing party. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 14. Kroll and Procaps must staff this project sufficiently to meet the deadlines established in the Order. If they need to increase the number of persons assigned to the project or the number of hours worked in order to complete it on time, then they shall make those necessary arrangements. The Court understands that these arrangements may increase the cost of the project, but that consequence is the result of an inadequate collection process and is not something which Patheon should be penalized for here. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 15. If Patheon wants to follow through with its stated intent to seek additional fees or other sanctions as a result of the last minute discovery of Procaps' deficient ESI/document collection after reviewing the Uncovered Documents, then it must file a motion and memorandum by April 27, 2014. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 III. ATTORNEY'S FEES
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Patheon has filed an affidavit and supporting documentation [ECF No. 339] to support its request for fees as the party prevailing in this discovery dispute. The Court has reviewed the submission and is awarding $24,115, which must be paid by March 10, 2014. This amount includes the 2.2 hours of Attorney Cahill's time (which was not tallied in Patheon's submission) and a reduction for the database issue on which Patheon did not prevail. Because Patheon's submission is based on the significantly discounted hourly rates which the Court established in an earlier Order [ECF No. 223, p. 31], there does not need to be further reductions to reflect local rates, as opposed to the significantly higher rates used by Patheon's out of town firm.[fn4]
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Procaps itself shall be responsible for paying 50% of the Rule 37 fees shifting award and its counsel (i.e., the Carlton Fields law firm) shall be responsible for paying the remaining 50%. The Court does not want to generate a mini trial to further break down [*7] fees responsibility and therefore will not require the Carlton Fields firm to advise the Court of which attorneys were primarily responsible for the ESI and document searches, the failure to realize that Procaps never implemented a litigation hold, and the inadequate, insufficiently supervised methodology Procaps used to locate and collect ESI and other documents. However, Carlton Fields is urged (though not required) to explore which attorneys caused, or helped cause, this discovery failure and to determine whether those attorneys (rather than the firm itself) should pay all or some of the $12,057.50 fees award. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 If either party wishes to object to either the ruling on entitlement to fees or the amount of fees, then it may file a motion within five days of entry of this Order. If one or more motions were to be filed, then the Court will schedule the objections raised in the motions for an evidentiary hearing and the two law firms will be required to produce their billing records for the time incurred in connection with the motion to compel. The time incurred in connection with the hearing will, of course, also be compensable in the fees award. 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 If no motions raising objections to the fees award are filed, then the fees must be paid by the March 10, 2014 deadline. In addition, an affidavit confirming the payments and explaining who is paying the Carlton Fields portion of the award (i.e., the firm itself or the lawyers responsible for the discovery mess, and, if so, which attorneys) must be submitted to the Court's e-file inbox within three days of payment. If any individual attorney (or attorneys) will be making some or all of the payment, then the Court underscores the point flagged in the last fees award: this is a fee shifting award, not a disciplinary sanction. [See ECF No. 223, p. 39, n. 10]. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 DONE AND ORDERED.
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn1] I Still Haven't Found What I'm Looking For, on THE JOSHUA TREE (Island 1987). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn2] Patheon also asked for leave to bring a sanctions and fees motion at a later date, but the Court need not provide Patheon with advance authority to file motions. If Patheon were to file a motion for sanctions, fees and other relief as a result of Procaps' deficient search for ESI and documents, then the Court will of course consider it, just like any other motion. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn3] The Court's selection of the October 22, 2012 date relates solely to Kroll's forensic examination. It is not a ruling or determination of the date when Procaps or its counsel reasonably anticipated litigation for purposes of implementing a litigation hold and preserving evidence, nor is it a ruling on the date when Procaps' work product claim begins. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn4] By way of example, Patheon attorney Joshua Siegel incurred the most amount of time in connection with this motion (i.e., 52.8 hours). His standard hourly rate, according to the time records submitted, is $710, but this fees award uses a $260 hourly rate. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb566\sa1133\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0          
\f0\fs42 General Information\

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 Judge(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Jonathan Goodman\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Related Docket(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 1:12-cv-24356 (S.D. Fla.);\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Topic(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Civil Procedure; Damages & Remedies\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Date Filed\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 2014-02-28 00:00:00\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Parties\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 PROCAPS S.A., Plaintiff, v. PATHEON INC., Defendant.\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Case Type\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 SO\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Court\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 United States District Court for the Southern District of Florida\cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\li674\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\fs20 \cf0 Pagination \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 *
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 BL
\f1\fs24 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\li674\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Majority Opinion > 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA, MIAMI DIVISION\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0  \uc0\u8232 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 PROCAPS S.A., Plaintiff, v. PATHEON INC., Defendant. 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0  \uc0\u8232 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 CASE NO. 12-24356-CIV-GOODMAN \
December 30, 2014, Entered on Docket December 30, 2014, Decided \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 For Mr. John M. Barkett, Special Master: John Moses Barkett, LEAD ATTORNEY, Shook Hardy & Bacon, Miami, FL.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 For Procaps S.A., a Colombian sociedad anonima, Plaintiff: Chris S. Coutroulis, Donald R. Schmidt, Mac Richard McCoy, LEAD ATTORNEYS, Charles Woodward Throckmorton, V, D Matthew Allen, D Matthew Allen, Carlton Fields Jorden Burt, P.A., Tampa, FL; Gary Michael Pappas, LEAD ATTORNEY, Charles Woodward Throckmorton, V, David Lanier Luck, Alan Rosenthal, Carlton Fields Jorden Burt, P.A., Miami, FL; Karen L. Hagberg, Michael B. Miller, LEAD ATTORNEYS, PRO HAC VICE, Morrison & Foerster, New York, NY; Natalie Jessica Carlos, LEAD ATTORNEY, Carlton Fields P.A., Miami, FL; Avi Robert Kaufman, Kopelowitz Ostrow Ferguson Weiselberg Gilbert, Coral Gables, FL; Robert Wayne Pass, Carlton Fields Jorden Burt, P.A., Tallahassee, FL.\
For Patheon Inc., a Canadian corporation, Defendant: David A. Vogel, Robert T. Cahill, LEAD ATTORNEYS, PRO HAC VICE, Cooley, LLP, Reston, VA; Dee Bansal, Joshua M. Siegel, Marc Schildkraut, Michael J. Klisch, LEAD ATTORNEYS, PRO HAC VICE, Cooley, LLP, Washington, DC; Douglas P. Lobel, LEAD ATTORNEY, Cooley, LLP, Reston, VA; M. Howard Morse, LEAD ATTORNEY, Cooley, LLP, Washington, DC; Mary Kathryn Kelley, LEAD ATTORNEY, Cooley, LLP, San Diego, CA; Mazda K. Antia, LEAD ATTORNEY, PRO HAC VICE, Cooley, LLP, San Diego, CA; Robert Mark Brochin, LEAD ATTORNEY, Morgan, Lewis & Bockius LLP, Miami, FL; Meredith M. Snyder, PRO HAC VICE, Cooley, LLP, Washington, DC.
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Jonathon Goodman, UNITED STATES MAGISTRATE JUDGE.
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Jonathon Goodman \
[CONSENT CASE] \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 ORDER ADOPTING SPECIAL MASTER'S REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION THAT PROCAPS MOTION FOR A FORENSIC EXAMINATION OF PATHEON'S ELECTRONICALLY STORED INFORMATION BE DENIED
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 The Special Master, who both parties agreed to, filed an 85-page report [ECF No. 627] recommending denial of Plaintiff Procaps S.A.'s ("Procaps") "Motion to Compel Forensic Analysis of Patheon and Banner's ESI" [ECF No. 559]. Procaps wanted the Court to compel a forensic examination of the electronically stored information ("ESI") systems of Defendant Patheon, Inc. ("Patheon") and affiliated companies, including Banner, which used to be a Procaps' competitor. This issue has been the subject of comprehensive briefing, both before and after the Special Master issued his report.\
Procaps filed its motion [ECF No. 559], Patheon filed a response [ECF No. 568] and Procaps filed a reply memorandum [ECF No. 585]. Following a hearing with the Special Master, both Patheon and Procaps filed supplemental memoranda [ECF No. 604; 606]. After the Special Master issued his comprehensive Report and Recommendation, Procaps filed objections [ECF No. 629], Patheon filed a succinct [ECF No. 630] motion to adopt the Report and Recommendation, Procaps filed a short opposition [ECF No. 631] to the motion (for the reasons outlined in its objections) and Patheon filed an opposition [ECF No. 632] to Procaps' objections.\
The Court's Order Appointing Neutral Special Master for ESI Issues [[*2] ECF No. 558] provides that objections to conclusions of law and findings of fact made or recommended by the Special Master would be subject to de novo review. It also provided that any report or order issued by the Special Master, unless it involved a finding of fact or conclusion of law, would be deemed a ruling on a procedural matter, to be set aside only where it is an abuse of discretion.\
Procaps urges a de novo review.\
At bottom, Procaps wants the Court to order a forensic analysis in order to fix what it calls a "discovery imbalance" created by the Court's earlier Order requiring a forensic analysis of Procaps' ESI. [ECF No. 629, p. 2]. Procaps contends that the Court used a different, less-stringent standard when evaluating the request to forensically examine its ESI and argues that the Court's approach is fundamentally unfair. [ Id.]. Alternatively, at a bare minimum, Procaps asks that the Court order a re-evaluation and re-search, by an independent forensic examiner, of the 3 million documents already in possession of Patheon's counsel, based on more-complete search terms. [ Id. at p. 5].\
Patheon contends that a de novo review is inappropriate because that standard applies only where the objecting party has sufficiently pinpointed precise objections to specific findings in a report and recommendation and then articulated legal grounds for each objection. [ECF No. 632, p. 2]. Patheon argues that Procaps' arguments are too vague and do not challenge any specific findings or identify any particular legal error. [ Id.]. Instead, Patheon says, Procaps' objections should be summarily overruled as overly conclusory and general. [ Id.]. According to Patheon, Procaps' objections effectively demand that the Court itself "comb through the extensive record itself and analyze de novo every single finding in an 85-page R & R in an effort to uncover possible errors." [ Id.].\
Patheon also challenges the merits of Procaps' arguments (even though Patheon brands them as general objections). [ Id. at pp. 3-5].\
For the reasons outlined below, the Court approves, adopts and ratifies the Special Master's 85-page Report and Recommendations and rejects Procaps' objections.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Standard of Review
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 53(f)(3) and (4) provide that a court must "decide de novo" all objections to findings of fact and conclusions of law made or recommended by a master, unless the parties, with the court's approval, stipulate otherwise. Subsection (5) provides that the court may set aside a master's ruling on a procedural matter only for an abuse of discretion, unless the appointing order establishes a different standard of review. As outlined above, the Order appointing the special master adopted the standards established in subsections (3) , (4) and (5) .\
A party objecting to a special master's rulings or recommendations must "state the specific objections to the Special Master's ruling or provide any factual or legal support for such objections." Bray & Gillepsie Mgmt. LLC v. Lexington Ins. Co., No. 6:07-cv-222-Orl-35KRS, 2008 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 97348 , 2008 WL 5110541 (M.D. Fla. Dec. 1, 2008). When a party fails to follow this standard, then courts do not use the more-exacting standard of de [*3] novo review -- but, instead, use the clear error standard of review. Therefore, a party seeking de novo review of a magistrate judge's report and recommendation or a special master's ruling or report and recommendation must "specifically identify those findings objected to." Leatherwood v. Anna's Linens Co., 384 Fed. Appx. 853 , 857 (11th Cir. 2010).\
Phrased differently, a court will not use a de novo review standard for "frivolous, conclusive or general objections." Id . (district court did not err in using de novo review for only two of several objections and using clear error standard for the other objections because the two were the "only objections that identified specific findings set forth in the R & R and articulated a legal ground for objection"). Likewise, Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 72(b)(3) provides that a court must conduct a de novo review of any part of a magistrate judge's report and recommendation that has been "properly objected to." (emphasis added). See also Marsden v. Moore, 847 F.2d 1536 , 1548 (11th Cir. 1988) (holding that a habeas petitioner did not sufficiently object to a magistrate judge's recommendation because his objection was insufficiently clear and precise, and explaining that parties objecting to report must specifically identify those findings objected to). Cf. United States v. Schultz, 565 F.3d 1353 , 1360-1361 (11th Cir. 2009) (holding that party wishing to preserve objection to report must clearly advise the district court and "pinpoint the specific findings that the party disagrees with," and noting that "it is reasonable to place upon the parties the duty to pinpoint those portions of the magistrate's report that the district court must specially consider").\
Patheon argues that Procaps' Objection did not challenge any of the Report's specific findings or cite any legal authority and did not identify any legal factual or legal error which, if corrected, would justify the requested forensic analysis of Patheon's ESI. [ECF No. 632, p. 2]. Patheon brands the objections as "clearly 'conclusive' and 'general.'" [ Id. (internal citations omitted)].\
In that regard, Patheon contends that Procaps' Objections do not target specific sections of the Special Master's Report as being legally or factually incorrect. Instead, Patheon argues, in effect, that Procaps' Objections assert only broad themes: (1) that the Special master's Report would lead to an imbalanced and fundamentally unfair discovery process; (2) that the Special Master used a stricter standard than the one the Undersigned used when granting Patheon's motion for a forensic analysis of Procaps' ESI; and (3) that portions of the Special Master's Report are premised on his view that the requested relief is beyond the scope of his appointment and authority.\
Given this supposed lack of specificity, Patheon argues that the Court should summarily overrule the Objections. The Court is not going to follow that suggested approach. To be sure, the Objections are largely conclusory and general and challenge perceived results flowing from the Report, rather than focusing on alleged legal grounds for rejecting certain findings and conclusions. Thus, the Court would be conducting [*4] an adequate review if it used the clear error standard. Nevertheless, in an abundance of caution, the Undersigned will use a de novo standard of review to evaluate Procaps' three broad, non-specific categories of challenge to the R & R.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Standards for Obtaining a Forensic Examination of ESI
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Courts may tailor discovery orders to remedy harm caused by a failure to implement litigation holds to preserve potentially relevant evidence. Conducting a forensic examination is a way to determine if relevant evidence currently exists or previously existed and was lost or destroyed. Nacco Materials Handling Group, Inc. v. Lilly Co., 278 F.R.D. 395 (W.D. Tenn. 2011). In order for a party to obtain a forensic analysis of its adversary's computer system, the Court must make a "factual finding of some non-compliance with discovery rules." In re Ford Motor Co., 345 F.3d 1315 , 1317 (11th Cir. 2003) (reversing order requiring forensic analysis).\
Generally speaking, courts do not require a forensic analysis in the absence of consent unless there has been significant non-compliance with discovery obligations. Powers v. Thomas M. Cooley Law School, No. 5:05-CV-117, 2006 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 67706 , 2006 WL 2711512 , at *5 (W.D. Mich. Sept. 21, 2006); Mirbeau of Geneva Lake LLC v. City of Lake Geneva, No. 08-CV-693, 2009 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 101104 , 2009 WL 3347101 , at *1 (E.D. Wis. Oct. 15, 2009) (forensic analysis appropriate "[o]nly if the moving party can actually prove that the responding party has concealed information or lacks the expertise necessary to search and retrieve all relevant data"). Cf. Daimler Truck N. Am. LLC v. Younessi, No. 08-MC-5011RBL, 2008 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 86022 , 2008 WL 2519845 , at *3 (W.D. Wash. June 20, 2008) (denying forensic analysis where there was no evidence that documents were destroyed and where the court predicted the responding party would produce the discovery); U & I Corp. v. Advanced Med. Design, Inc., 251 F.R.D. 667 , 675-76 (M.D. Fla. 2008) (defendant satisfied In re Ford's non-compliance with discovery standard because plaintiff had committed several serious discovery violations).\
Requiring a forensic analysis of ESI is an unusual and "drastic" remedy and is therefore the "exception and not the rule." In re Ford, 345 F.3d at 1317 . See also Downs v. Va. Health Sys., No. 5:13cv00083, [2014 BL 187328], 2014 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 74415 , 2014 WL 3604002 , at *1 (W.D. Va. June 2, 2014).\
Framed by these principles, courts compel a party to turn over its computers for a forensic ESI analysis only where there is a strong showing that the party (1) intentionally destroyed evidence, or (2) intentionally thwarted discovery. Powers, 2006 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 67706 , 2006 WL 2711512 , at *5. The rule is similar in state courts in Florida. See Holland v. Barfield, 35 So. 3d 953 (Fla. 5th DCA 2010) (granting writ of certiorari and quashing order requiring defendant to produce her computer hard drive).\
Concerning the first of the two prongs, a party is found to have intentionally destroyed evidence when it purposefully destroys evidence it has a duty to produce. Koosharem Corp. v. Spec Pers, LLC, No. 6:08-583-HFF, [2008 BL 218449], 2008 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 108396 , 2008 WL 4458864 , at *1 (D.S.C. Sept. 29, 2008) (forensic evaluation ordered after every email defendant produced was inauthentic and court noted that defendant revised and forged email content); Playboy Enters. v. Welles, 60 F. Supp. 2d 1050 , 1051 (S.D. Cal. 1999) (authorizing forensic ESI evaluation after methodical deletion of relevant emails once litigation began).\
For the second prong, a party intentionally thwarts [*5] discovery by violating court orders to produce, purposefully hides responsive documents and fails to initiate a reasonable process to search for, collect and produce responsive ESI. U and I, 251 F.R.D. at 675-76 . Conversely, a party does not intentionally thwart discovery where it undertakes a reasonable, good faith process to locate and produce documents. Henderson v. U.S. Bank, N.A., No. 08C0839, [2009 BL 92500], 2009 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 40968 , 2009 WL 1152019 , at *2 (E.D. Wis. Apr. 29 , 2009) (concluding that bank's demand for direct access to its former employees' electronic materials was premature).\
In addition, a party's "mere desire to check" on another party's production is usually not a "good enough reason' to allow a forensic inspection. Memry Corp. v. Kentucky Oil Tech, N.V., No. C04-03843 RMW, 2007 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 22488 , 2007 WL 832937 , at *4 (N.D. Cal. March 19, 2007) (denying requested forensic inspection and noting that the requesting party had not demonstrated sufficient flaws in production and noting that less-than-perfect document production does not "necessarily rise to the level of necessitating production of hard drives").\
Downs v. Health Systems provides a helpful summary of the applicable law:\
\pard\pardeftab720\li539\ri539\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 [F]ederal courts "have been cautious in requiring the mirror imaging of computers where the request is extremely broad in nature and the connection between the computers and the claims in the lawsuit are unduly vague or unsubstantiated in nature." John B. v Goetz, 531 F.3d 448 , 459-60 (6th Cir. 2008) (quoting Balboa Threadworks, Inc. v. Stucky, 2006 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 29265 , *9 (D. Kan. Mar. 24, 2006) (citations omitted). Likewise, it is not surprising that "mere skepticism that an opposing party has not produced all relevant information is not sufficient to warrant drastic electronic discovery measures." John B., 531 F.3d at 460 (citing McCurdy Group, LLC v. Am. Biomedical Group, Inc.,  9 Fed. Appx. 822 , 831 (10th Cir. 2001). '"[A] mere desire to check that the opposition has been forthright in its discovery responses is not a good enough reason' for a court order compelling an exhaustive computer forensic examination." Nola Spice Designs, LLC v. Haydel Enters., [2013 BL 404676], 2013 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 108872 , *7 (E.D. La. Aug. 2, 2013) (quoting Memry Corp. v. Kentucky Oil Technology, N.V., 2007 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 22488 (N.D. Cal. Mar, 19, 2007). On the other hand, restrained and orderly computer forensic examinations have been permitted, where the moving party has demonstrated that the opposing party has defaulted in its discovery obligations by unwillingness or failure to produce relevant information by more conventional means. White v. Graceland College Center etc., 2009 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 22068 , *22, 24-25 n. 17 (D. Kan. Mar. 18, 2009).\
[2014 BL 187328], 2014 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 74415 , [WL ] at *8 (emphasis in original).1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Denying Procaps' Motion Does Not Generate an Unfairly "Imbalanced" Discovery Process\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Procaps argues that the Special Master's Report, recommending denial of its motion for a forensic analysis of Patheon's ESI, is inherently unfair because it will create an imbalanced discovery process. [ECF No. 629, p. 2].\
Before addressing this argument, the Undersigned finds it worthwhile to place this argument in the appropriate procedural context. At bottom, it is difficult, if not impossible, to compare the circumstances leading to the prior Order for a forensic assessment of Procaps' ESI to Procaps' still-pending motion to obtain the same relief against [*6] Patheon.\
First, Procaps conceded that its document and ESI search was inadequate; Patheon makes no such concession. Second, Procaps agreed to a forensic audit of its ESI (it merely had not resolved the implementing details with Patheon); Patheon vigorously challenges the motion for a forensic analysis of its ESI. Not only did Procaps agree to the forensic audit, but it participated in the selection of the outside ediscovery vendors who would perform it. Third, because Procaps stipulated to a forensic analysis, the Order (which granted the motion, reviewed the deficiencies which led to Procaps' concession and established the procedures) did not discuss the legal standards for requiring a forensic analysis. There was no need, as Procaps acknowledged its own discovery shortfalls when it agreed to the forensic analysis.\
The mere fact that this Court previously entered an Order for a forensic analysis of Procaps' ESI does not mean there would be an unfair discovery imbalance if a reciprocal Order were not imposed against Patheon. Under that standard, every order compelling a forensic analysis of one party's ESI would necessarily require a mirror image order compelling a similar analysis of the opposing party's ESI -- because a failure to do so would generate "imbalance."\
While it is certainly true that there would be "imbalance" if the Court did not vacate the Special Master's Report and did not order a forensic inspection of Patheon's ESI, the imbalance is not "unfair" because the scenarios surrounding the two requests are substantially different. The Court has already highlighted several significant factors which distinguish Procaps' current request from Patheon's prior request.\
But there are additional reasons why an imbalance is not unfair and would not compel a forensic analysis:\
Procaps contends that it did not learn when each Patheon litigation hold recipient received a hold notice until the hearing before the Special Master. [ECF No. 629, pp. 3-4]. But, as this Court previously ruled, Procaps never asked for this information in discovery.\
Moreover, Procaps now concedes that it does not have any evidence of spoliation [ECF No. 627, pp. 23, 57-58]. The Special Master noted this fact in his Report and Procaps has not in any way challenged its accuracy.2 Moreover, the Special Master also noted that Patheon does not have an automatic deletion policy applicable to emails and has preserved its email and file server backup tapes for the relevant time period. [ Id. at p. 73]. Procaps did not object to this finding.\
Using a de novo standard of review, the Court rejects this first of three objections to the Special Master's Report.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 The Special Master Did Not Use a Stricter Standard, But, If He Did, Procaps Cannot Successfully Complain\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 As outlined above, the prior Order requiring a forensic exam of Procaps' ESI -- a remedy which Procaps agreed to -- did not cite the legal standards for obtaining an order compelling a forensic analysis because Procaps agreed to the fundamental concept. Nevertheless, comparing the facts and circumstances [*7] in the Order for a forensic exam with those at issue in Patheon's request reveals substantial differences. Thus, the different results are not the byproduct of this court's use of different legal standards to evaluate similar motions. Instead, they were caused by the simple reality that the facts are different. In fact, Patheon outlined those critical factual differences in a chart embedded in its memorandum [ECF No. 568, pp. 8-9] opposing Procaps' motion.\
In its Objections to the Special Master's Report, Procaps does not specify any errors with his findings about the different factual circumstances surrounding the alleged discovery deficiencies of Procaps, as opposed to Patheon's alleged shortcomings. The Report discusses these differences for almost 20 pages [ECF No 627, pp. 8- 27], but the Undersigned does not think it necessary to list each and every factor here. Rather, the Undersigned believes that the following differences are worth noting because they are more than sufficient to demonstrate why Procaps' "different standard" objection is incorrect.\
Here are several critical differences between the two requests:\
1. Procaps failed to implement a litigation hold until February 26, 2014, in response to a Court order requiring it. In contrast, Patheon distributed a litigation hold in December 2012 to key employees (14 months earlier) and then expanded and recirculated additional notices in April and May 2013.\
2. Procaps did not automatically back up or preserve its email or file servers; Patheon did.\
3. Procaps did not meet with its IT employees to discuss how and where ESI was stored or could be located; Patheon's counsel interviewed senior members of Patheon's IT Department.\
4. Procaps' counsel did not meet with or contact any Procaps employee to discuss a litigation hold; Patheon's counsel did so and confirmed compliance.\
5. Procaps' counsel did not supervise the ESI search, collection and preservation process; Patheon's counsel did so.\
6. Certain Procaps' executives searched for responsive documents on their own, using limited search terms they came up with on their own; Patheon did not allow its executives and employees to develop their own search terms.\
7. Procaps' counsel did not use or develop any ESI search terms; Patheon's counsel developed search terms after obtaining input from records custodians.\
Using the legal standards explained above for requiring a forensic ESI analysis, the Undersigned would have required Procaps to undergo forensic inspection if it had not voluntarily conceded that one was appropriate (and therefore agreed to it).\
Nevertheless, Procaps cannot complain that the results are different (i.e., Procaps' ESI is being subjected to a forensic inspection but Patheon's is not) because it agreed to the inspection. It is a fundamental principle of appellate law that a party cannot challenge on appeal a ruling to which it agreed. See Pacific R.R. v. Ketchum, 101 U.S. 289 , 25 L. Ed. 932 (1879) ("If . . . it appears that the decree appealed from was assented to by the appellant, [the Court] cannot consider any errors that may be assigned [*8] which were in law waived by the consent"); U.S. v. Babbitt, 104 U.S. 767 , 26 L. Ed. 921 , 17 Ct. Cl. 431 (1881) ("In Pacific Railroad v. Ketchum[,] we decided that when a decree was rendered by consent, no errors would be considered here on an appeal which were in law waived by such a consent"); Shores v. Sklar, 885 F.2d 760 (11th Cir. 1989) (en banc), cert. denied, 493 U.S. 1045 , 110 S. Ct. 843 , 107 L. Ed. 2d 838 (1990) (appellant-s consent to an entry of judgment, without reservation of a right to appeal, bars a subsequent appeal of the order). Therefore, Procaps' argument is fundamentally flawed and is problematic because it seemingly runs afoul of this well-established principle.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 The Special Master's Reticence About Authorizing Additional Discovery Does Not Justify a Forensic Analysis of Patheon's ESI\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 This third objection is not a well-developed one, as it consists entirely of two sentences. Basically, Procaps notes that the Special Master was handling a specific motion -- to compel a forensic examination -- not basic discovery disputes, such as whether a forensic examiner is needed to run expanded search terms on the documents Patheon is holding. The Special Master also flagged other limits to his authority: he explained that a Procaps' gripe over Patheon's alleged failure to produce relevant ESI from Banner employees would lead to a motion to compel, not a motion to compel a forensic examination [ECF No. 627, pp. 66-67] -- and motions to compel, especially those not yet filed, have not been referred to the Special Master.\
Therefore, Procaps argues in its two-sentence objection, a de novo review of these issues is necessary because "unlike the Special Master, the Court is not so constrained." [ECF No. 629, p. 2].\
Patheon is correct that I do not need to refer issues to myself but do need to follow that referral procedure with the Special Master. But that hardly means that I should vacate or reject those portions of the Report where the Special Master noted he had not received a referral to evaluate discovery disputes other than those pinpointed in the Order appointing him and then affirmatively reach out and permit Procaps to take discovery after the discovery deadline has expired.\
The Court has already denied motions to compel discovery filed by both sides because discovery is closed and because the parties' private agreement (done without Court approval or even seeking approval or even advising the Court of the agreement) to hold discovery in abeyance and then permit it to somehow come alive again after the discovery deadline expired is legally insufficient. [ECF No. 603].\
Using the de novo standard urged by Procaps, the Court concludes that the Special Master correctly declined to rule on discovery disputes not referred to him and further concludes that Procaps' implicit motion to compel discovery is once again denied.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Conclusion\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 The Court approves, adopts and ratifies the Special Master's Report [ECF No. 627], rejects and overrules Procaps' Objections [ECF No. 629], and grants Patheon's motion to adopt the Report [ECF No. 630].\
DONE AND ORDERED in Chambers, in Miami, Florida, December 30, 2014.\
/s/ Jonathon Goodman\
Jonathon Goodman \
UNITED STATES MAGISTRATE JUDGE[*9] \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0  \uc0\u8232 \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 1\
The Special Master included this quote in his Report. [ECF No. 627, p. 54].\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 2\
In the Report, the Special Master notes that "Procaps also has not identified any testimony from a custodian to suggest that relevant files were intentionally or accidentally overlooked by a custodian during the interview process. Procaps did not identify any categories of missing documents." [ECF No. 627, p. 58].\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb566\sa1133\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0          
\f0\fs42 General Information\

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 Judge(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Jonathan Goodman\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Related Docket(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 1:12-cv-24356 (S.D. Fla.);\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Topic(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Civil Procedure; Evidence\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Date Filed\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 2014-12-30 00:00:00\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Parties\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 PROCAPS S.A., Plaintiff, v. PATHEON INC., Defendant.\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Court\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 United States District Court for the Southern District of Florida\cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\li674\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\fs20 \cf0 Pagination \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 *
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 BL
\f1\fs24 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\li674\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Majority Opinion > 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA, MIAMI DIVISION\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0  \uc0\u8232 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 PROCAPS S.A., Plaintiff, v. PATHEON INC., Defendant. 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0  \uc0\u8232 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 CASE NO. 12-24356-CIV-GOODMAN [CONSENT CASE] \
April 24, 2015, Filed April 24, 2015, Decided \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 For Mr. John M. Barkett, Special Master: John Moses Barkett, LEAD ATTORNEY, Shook Hardy & Bacon, Miami, FL.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 For Procaps S.A., a Colombian sociedad anonima, Plaintiff: Chris S. Coutroulis, Donald R. Schmidt, Mac Richard McCoy, LEAD ATTORNEYS, Carlton Fields Jorden Burt, P.A., Tampa, FL; Karen L. Hagberg, LEAD ATTORNEY, PRO HAC VICE, Morrison & Foerster, New York, NY; Michael B. Miller, LEAD ATTORNEY, PRO HAC VICE, Morrison & Forester, New York, NY; Natalie Jessica Carlos, LEAD ATTORNEY, Carlton Fields P.A., Miami, FL; Avi Robert Kaufman, Charles Woodward Throckmorton, V, D Matthew Allen, Alan Rosenthal, Carlton Fields Jorden Burt, P.A., Miami, FL.\
For Patheon Inc., a Canadian corporation, Defendant: David A. Vogel, Robert T. Cahill, LEAD ATTORNEYS, PRO HAC VICE, Cooley, LLP, Reston, VA; Dee Bansal, Joshua M. Siegel, M. Howard Morse, Marc Schildkraut, Mazda K. Antia, Michael J. Klisch, LEAD ATTORNEYS, PRO HAC VICE, Cooley, LLP, Washington, DC; Douglas P. Lobel, LEAD ATTORNEY, Cooley, LLP, Reston, VA; M. Howard Morse, LEAD ATTORNEY, Cooley, LLP, Washington, DC; Mary Kathryn Kelley, LEAD ATTORNEY, Cooley, LLP, San Diego, CA; Robert Mark Brochin, LEAD ATTORNEY, Morgan Lewis & Bockius, Miami, FL; Meredith M. Snyder, PRO HAC VICE, Cooley, LLP, Washington, DC.
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Jonathon Goodman, UNITED STATES MAGISTRATE JUDGE.
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Jonathon Goodman \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 ORDER ON PATHEON'S MOTION FOR LEAVE TO DEPOSE THE COURT-APPOINTED FORENSIC EXPERT
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li539\ri539\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 "Knowledge is of two kinds. We know a subject ourselves, or we know where we can find information on it."\
- Samuel Johnson, English writer and lexicographer (1709-1784)\
"Help the poor, won't you help poor me."1 \
- Blues icon B.B. King\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Plaintiff Procaps, S.A. ("Procaps") is seeking more than $350 million in treble damages from Defendant Patheon Inc. ("Patheon") in this federal antitrust lawsuit. The Court appointed a neutral computer forensic expert to analyze Procaps' electronically stored information ("ESI") and later appointed a Special Master to assist the Court with ESI issues, which have been detailed, complex and time-consuming. Patheon now wants to take the expert's deposition, but Procaps objects. Patheon filed a motion to take the deposition [ECF No. 673] and Procaps filed an opposing response [ECF No. 681].\
For the reasons outlined in greater detail below, the Court grants the motion, with certain conditions. At bottom, however, the Undersigned is granting the motion because (1) the deposition will be taken, in part, by the Special Master, (2) the deposition will surely assist the Court to evaluate the inevitable ESI issues arising from the files deleted from Procaps' ESI, (3) the motion may actually provide information helpful to Procaps, and (4) depending on what occurs at the deposition, it might cause Patheon to not file the often-threatened spoliation/sanctions motion it has mentioned (both overtly and implicitly) since it first learned that Procaps had not timely imposed a litigation hold and had not timely conducted an adequate ESI search.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Factual Background
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Procaps filed [*2] its antitrust lawsuit in December 2012, but it did not implement a formal litigation hold until after February 27, 2014, when this Court ordered one to be implemented in response to Patheon's motion. [ECF No. 324]. Beyond not implementing a formal hold, Procaps' counsel acknowledged that its document and ESI search efforts were inadequate. Procaps' United States lawyers never traveled to Colombia (where Procaps is based) to meet with Procaps' information technology team (or other executives) to discuss how relevant or responsive ESI would be located, and it did not retain an ESI retrieval consultant to help Procaps implement a litigation hold or to search for relevant ESI and documents. Some critical Procaps executives and employees conducted their own searches for ESI and documents without ever seeing\
Patheon's document request or without receiving a list of search terms from its counsel. Procaps ultimately agreed to a forensic analysis by an outside vendor specializing in ESI retrieval, and the Court ordered that this be done and established the scope of the analysis. [ECF No. 341]. The Court then allowed the parties to select a neutral third-party to perform the forensic analysis. [ECF No. 422]. Without the Undersigned playing any role, the parties selected Kroll Ontrack, Inc. ("Kroll") as the vendor, but conflicts of interest (or apparent conflicts) were soon discovered concerning Kroll. [ECF Nos. 384; 400; 402; 415]. Accordingly, Kroll was removed as vendor and the parties were directed to agree on another company to conduct the forensic analysis. [ECF No. 422]. The parties agreed on Setec Investigations ("Setec") to perform the forensic analysis. [ECF No. 432].\
In the Order appointing Setec, the Court directed that, as a neutral third-party, Setec "shall not be deemed [an] agent[], representative[], or expert[] of either Procaps or Patheon." [ Id., at p. 3].\
In addition to agreeing to the appointment of Setec to conduct forensic analysis, the parties also consented to the appointment of a special master, John Barkett, to address numerous disputes concerning the ESI forensic analysis, with many of these disputes turning on specialized technical ESI issues which would have required the expenditure of significant time by the Court and its staff to address. [ECF Nos. 546; 551; 558].\
Pursuant to Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 53 , Mr. Barkett was appointed as a neutral special master for the purpose of resolving matters referred to him in connection with the Second Amended Forensic Analysis Order [ECF No. 493]. [ECF No. 558]. Specifically, the Court authorized Mr. Barkett to manage and resolve all disputes concerning: "(a) the search term refinement procedure . . . ; (b) the procedure for reviewing, producing, withholding, and redacting Procaps' documents (including all disputes arising from or relating to the Privilege Log and Personal Information Log [ ]) . . . ; (c) the production of Procaps' documents . . . ; (d) any technical matters concerning the Forensic Analysis; (e) any other matters the Court may refer to the Special Master after giving the parties notice and an opportunity to be heard; (f) any other matters that the parties [*3] may jointly agree to present to the Special Master for his consideration; and (g) if a motion for a forensic analysis of Patheon's ESI were to be filed, a recommendation on whether the motion should be granted." [ Id., at pp. 3-4 (internal citations omitted)].\
In his role as special master, Mr. Barkett filed periodic reports with the Court concerning his work in resolving the disputes associated with the implementation of the Second Amended Forensic Analysis Order [ECF Nos. 567; 589; 605; 618; 626; 633; 642; 651; 667], while also issuing an extensive report and recommendations [ECF No. 627] that Procaps' motion to compel forensic examination of Patheon's ESI [ECF No. 559] be denied.\
In the Undersigned's Amended Order on Forensic Analysis of Plaintiff's Electronic Media, Setec was directed to recover any user-created files that were deleted after October 22, 2012 ("Deleted Files") and to provide a written report (the "Report") to both parties that identified the file names of any of the Deleted Files that it could not recover in full, the date the Deleted Files were deleted, and from what electronic media the Deleted Files were deleted. [ Id., at p. 7].\
The Report -- completed in May 2014 -- shows that nearly 200,000 emails, PDFs, and Microsoft Word, Excel, and PowerPoint files were apparently deleted. [ECF No. 540]. It appears that approximately 5,700 of these files contain an ESI search term in their title, which indicates that they could have been subject to production in the forensic analysis if they had not been deleted.\
The parties dispute the meaning of the Report, however, and each filed its own summary of it.\
According to Patheon's summary, on or after February 26, 2014, the day the Court ordered Procaps to implement a litigation hold, Procaps deleted more than 17,000 emails, PDFs, and Microsoft Word, Excel and Power Point files, at least 298 of which contain a search term in their title. [ECF No. 540, pp. 2-4].\
Before Setec provided its Report, Procaps argued that "there is no evidence that any ESI or other documents have been deleted or purged with no chance of being recovered." [ECF No. 341, p. 5]. After the Report was issued, Procaps noted that "Setec plainly advised the parties that there may be 'duplicate files in other locations.'" [ECF No. 542, p. 3]. In its response to the instant motion, Procaps stressed that Patheon ignores Setec's explanation that a "duplicate file with the same information may exist elsewhere, even on the same Source."\
Patheon now seeks to take the deposition of Setec and learn information about the Report.\
Patheon argues that "it would make no sense to order an expert to prepare a detailed, technical deleted files report and then bar parties from questioning the expert on the record."\
Specifically, Patheon says Setec is "uniquely qualified" to explain its own Report and how it prepared the Report. Patheon contends that it is entitled to present evidence of the failure to preserve in a motion for sanctions (and perhaps at trial). It argues that the deposition will help it get to "the bottom of the scope and severity of Procaps' failure to preserve." Patheon says a Setec deposition [*4] is necessary so that it can understand and explain Procaps' ESI destruction to the Court (in a sanctions motion) or to a jury (if its threatened sanctions motion were to be filed without a resulting dismissal of the lawsuit).\
In its motion for leave to take Setec's deposition, Patheon contends it is "very common" for parties to take the deposition of a neutral court-appointed forensic expert about deleted item reports. Patheon states that it plans on presenting evidence of Procaps' failure to preserve ESI in a possible motion for sanctions and/or at trial, which would necessarily involve the Report itself, and, by extension, testimony on the meaning and preparation of the Report. Because the Report, which is thousands of pages long, is highly technical, Patheon says it would be unfairly prejudicial to deny it the opportunity to take the deposition of Setec, the preparer of the Report.\
Procaps, however, opposes such a deposition on several grounds: 1) Patheon's one-year delay in requesting a deposition regarding Setec's May 2014 reports violates Local Rule 26.1(h) ; 2) there is no reasonable justification to compel this deposition; 3) Patheon has already exceeded Rule 30(a)(2) 's 10-deposition limit; and 4) the request that Procaps pay all deposition costs is an overreach. [ECF No. 681].\
Procaps' opposition focuses primarily on the lack-of-justification argument, challenging Patheon's contention that such depositions are "very common," while asserting that Patheon should not be allowed to make Setec into its own expert in the construction of a spoliation case against Procaps. [ Id., at pp. 4-6].\
The Court provided Setec with the opportunity to file its own optional response to Patheon's motion [ECF No. 674], but Setec elected not to file an objection or any other type of response.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Applicable Legal Principles
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Federal Rule of Evidence 706 governs court-appointed expert witnesses. Subsection 706(b)(2) provides that such witnesses "may be deposed by any party."\
Federal courts have authorized parties to take the deposition of neutral, court-appointed forensic experts in several instances involving deleted files reports. See e.g. Trigon Ins. Co. v. United States, 234 F. Supp. 2d 592 , 593 (E.D. Va. 2002) (permitting deposition of court-appointed forensic expert about deleted files report to "avoid additional litigation over the manner in which that effort was conducted" and so that party could "prepare its own case for trial"); G.K. Las Vegas Ltd. P'ship v Simon Prop. Grp. Inc., 671 F. Supp. 2d 1203 , 1224-25 (D. Nev. 2009) (permitting deposition of court-appointed forensic examiner on the deleted items report he prepared -- and noting that "one of the principal reasons for the court to appoint an expert witness is to obtain impartial testimony to aid the court or the jury in resolving a scientific issue") (emphasis added); Platypus Wear, Inc. v. Horizonte Fabricacao Distribuicao Importacao E Exportacao Ltda., No. 08-cv20738, 2012 WL 10750269 (S.D. Fla. June 25, 2012) (court-appointed forensic examiner who prepared reports as to whether data had been transferred or deleted from a server referenced his "deposition for this case" in his trial testimony)2; Malibu Media, LLC v. Does, No. 12-cv-2078 ([*5] E.D. Pa. June 10, 2013) (Court, in docket entry 179, provides counsel opportunity to depose an appointed expert witness who testified about concern about writing over original evidence)3; Multifeeder Tech, Inc. v. British Confectionary Co., No. 09-cv-1090, 2012 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 132619 , [2012 BL 239164], 2012 WL 4135848 , 2012 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 133197 , [2012 BL 441849], 2012 WL 4128385 (D. Minn. Sept. 18, 2012) (court-appointed ESI expert prepared a log of deleted documents and was deposed)4; Krumwiede v. Brighton Assocs., LLC, No. 05-cv-3003, 2006 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 31669 , [2006 BL 152488], 2006 WL 1308629 , at *3-5 (N.D. Ill. May 8, 2006) (counsel afforded right to depose court-appointed third-party neutral expert about his report on destruction of files from a laptop computer).\
However, in at least one other instance (cited by Procaps in its response), a federal court has declined to authorize the deposition of a court-appointed forensic examiner. American Family Mutual Ins. Co. v. Roth, 2010 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 87428 , [2010 BL 196184], 2010 WL 3397362 (N.D. Ill. 2010) (magistrate judge precluded a party from taking the deposition of a forensic examiner who inspected a party's computers for deleted evidence because of the delay in the request, the volume of discovery already produced by the forensic analysis, the fact that the report itself was "self-explanatory" and counsel understood it, and the examiner was "available for informal conversations and discussion with [the movant] regarding his report").\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Analysis
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Although Patheon has not yet filed a sanctions motion based on alleged spoliation of ESI, the parties behave as though the motion is a foregone conclusion. In its response, Procaps contends that Patheon "is trying to use Setec as its own expert to construct a spoliation case against Procaps." And Patheon's motion argues that it "has the right to file a motion for sanctions, fees and other relief based on Procaps' discovery failures."\
So it is apparent that Patheon will either file a sanctions motion based on purported spoliation or will seek to introduce evidence of spoliation at trial. Either way, the Undersigned will be compelled to once again plunge into the thicket of details surrounding Procaps' ESI. Without assistance, this will be a daunting task. Several reasons compel this conclusion:\
First, Setec's Report (providing data about the files which each custodian deleted after October 22, 2012) is thousands of pages long. Second, Setec has been involved in its forensic analysis for more than a year. Third, much of the nitty-gritty assessment about the forensic analysis has been handled by the Special Master, who has published books about ESI discovery and is the former chair of the ABA's National Institute on E-discovery. Fourth, the issues underlying a spoliation motion or evidentiary matters linked to trial presentation of ESI deletion will necessarily involve a fact-intensive analysis. For example, in the Eleventh Circuit, a court's power to impose spoliation sanctions requires a finding of bad faith -- and Setec (but not the Undersigned) is in a position to explain whether such a finding can be made from the Report or from other circumstances it learned about during its forensic analysis. Chambers v. Nasco, Inc., 501 U.S. 32 , 49 , 111 S. Ct. 2123 , 115 L. Ed. 2d 27 (1991) (invoking inherent power requires a bad faith finding); In re Mroz, 65 F.3d 1567 , 1575 (11th Cir. 1995) (same); Kornhauser [*6] v. Commissioner, 685 F.3d 1254 , 1257-58 (11th Cir. 2012) (same).\
Moreover, Patheon's anticipated sanctions motion will need to, among other things, demonstrate that the missing ESI evidence was crucial to its ability to prove its defense. Managed Care Solutions, Inc. v. Essent Healthcare, Inc., 736 F.Supp. 2d 1317 , 1327-28 (S.D. Fla. 2010). Setec may well be able to ascertain whether the deleted files are available elsewhere, and, if so, how difficult it would be to locate them -- factors which may well play a role in evaluating a sanctions motion based on an ESI spoliation theory.\
So the Undersigned does not view a Setec deposition as merely a strategic tool designed to help only Patheon pursue its strategy. To the contrary, the Undersigned considers the requested deposition to be something which would benefit the Court (and the parties). To be sure, Procaps opposes the motion, and the Undersigned does not doubt that Procaps does, in fact, want to prevent the deposition. But a Setec deposition may actually confer a benefit on Procaps. A Setec deposition may provide information which could cause Patheon to not file a sanctions motion (because, for example, it might decide to simply seek to present the evidence of ESI deletions at trial).\
But, at a minimum, a Setec deposition would surely assist the Court, and the Undersigned has no hesitation about disclosing my appreciation for help on complex ESI issues from court-appointed, neutral forensic experts (and from special masters with considerable experience in E-discovery).\
Procaps argues that such depositions are not "very common," the term used by Patheon in its motion. Although Patheon has cited legal authority for its request, several of them do not involve opinions where the issue is challenged or where the court analyzed the competing interests and made a substantive legal ruling on whether a deposition should be permitted. Instead, several of the authorities are cases where the judge happens to mention, almost in passing, that the parties took the deposition of the computer forensic expert, or are simply transcripts of trial testimony where the expert refers to a pre-trial deposition. See e.g., Platypus Wear, 2012 WL 10750269 .\
But regardless of whether depositions of court-appointed neutral experts on computer forensic issues are very common, used occasionally or are actually rare and atypical, they are certainly permissible. As noted, Federal Rule Evidence 706(b)(2) expressly provides for them. Moreover, there are published opinions discussing these types of depositions without critical comment. Perhaps more importantly, district courts have "broad discretion over the management of pre-trial activities, including discovery and scheduling." Johnson v. Board of Regents, 263 F.3d 1234 , 1269 (11th Cir. 2001).\
So the Undersigned is convinced that there is ample authority to support an order scheduling an expert deposition of Setec.\
Procaps' objection about the purported tardiness of the motion is insufficient to justify a denial of the motion. First, Local Rule 26.1(i) provides that all motions related to discovery "shall be filed within thirty (30) days of the occurrence of grounds for the motion."[*7] 5 But it is not at all clear to the Court that the grounds for the motion occurred when Procaps says they occurred -- in May 2014, when Setec issued its Report. The grounds may well have occurred in early April 2015 (less than 30 days before the instant motion was filed), when Procaps rejected Patheon's suggestion, apparently made for the first time, to take Setec's deposition. And Patheon notes that Setec completed its work on the forensic analysis during the first week of April 2015.\
Second, if Patheon had attempted to take Setec's deposition in April or May 2014, shortly after it released its initial Report on deleted items, then it is difficult to understand how that deposition would have been effective, given that it would have been taken approximately a year before Setec completed its project. Third, the consequences for violating the local rule are permissive, not mandatory. Specifically, the local rule provides that failure to file a discovery motion within the 30-day period, "absent a showing of reasonable cause for a later filing, may constitute a waiver of the relief sought." (emphasis supplied). Because the provision is permissive, the Court has discretion to grant the discovery motion, even if it was filed late. Kabula v. Southern Homes of Homestead, VII, Inc., No. 08-20685, 2008 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 84962 , [2008 BL 372592], 2008 WL 4691983 (S.D. Fla. Oct. 22, 2008).\
Fourth, the Court finds that the need to await Setec's completion of its forensic analysis is a sufficient showing of reasonable cause for a late filing (if the filing was actually late, which the Court has not found).\
Fifth, and finally, the Court deems its own desire for help on complicated, detailladen ESI issues to also generate grounds to overlook the late filing (again, assuming that the filing was in fact late, which it may not have been). See also Sandalwood Estates Homeowner's Assoc., Inc. v. Empire Indemnity Insurance Co., No. 09-CV-80787, 2010 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 12840 , [2010 BL 19700], 2010 WL 411088 (S.D. Fla. Jan. 29, 2010) (granting late-filed motion to compel and noting the "permissive nature" of the rule's consequence for non-compliance). Procaps further argues that a Setec deposition is unavailable because the parties have already used up their allotment of 10 depositions imposed by Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 30(a)(2) . It is certainly true that Rule 30(a) provides that a party cannot take more than ten (10) depositions without leave of court if the other parties do not stipulate. But Rule 26(b)(2)(A) also provides that the court may alter the limit on the number of depositions. In addition, the advisory committee's note to the 1993 Amendment of Rule 30 explains that "leave to take additional depositions should be granted when consistent with the principles of Rule 26(b)(2) ."\
Thus, there is no dispute that the Undersigned has authority to permit the deposition requested by Patheon. As previously noted, the Undersigned does not consider the proposed Setec deposition to be a standard deposition taken by one party for strategic purposes. Setec is a neutral, court-appointed expert, which places the proposed deposition in a different category. Moreover, as also explained above, the deposition would undoubtedly be [*8] of great help to the Court. If I were to deny the motion, as Procaps urges, then I would be undermining my own ability to grapple with the myriad, thorny issues which will surely arise in the next several weeks or months.\
Therefore, the Undersigned hopes to be able to "get by with a little help from my [ESI neutral expert] friends" and is "gonna try [to comprehensively and correctly assess the to-be-submitted ESI issues] with a little help from my friends."6 Granting Patheon's motion will enable the Undersigned to accomplish that goal; denying it would render that specific goal unattainable (and make the ESI spoliation/sanctions/trial evidence/bad faith/significance of missing evidence/prejudice evaluation more difficult).\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Procedure
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Because the Undersigned views the deposition as a method to help not only the parties but also the Court to better understand the ESI issues, a deposition containing objective and fair testimony will best promote the goal of providing assistance to the Court. Involving the Special Master will increase the benefit to the Court. Therefore, the Special Master will participate in and manage the deposition under the procedures established below:\
1. The parties, Setec and the Special Master will jointly confer in order to select by consensus the most-appropriate deponent. It may well be that the deposition of more than one Setec representative will be the most-efficient arrangement. Regardless of the number of specific witnesses who will testify, the overall length of the deposition (or depositions) will remain the same: 5 hours.\
2. The Special Master will, along with counsel for the parties, have the opportunity to question the witness (or witnesses). The Special Master will have up to 2.5 hours and each party's counsel will have 1.25 hours.\
3. The Special Master has the authority to divide and allocate the time as he sees fit. For example, he may decide to question the sole deponent (assuming the parties are using a one-deponent-only methodology) for one hour, give each attorney one hour and fifteen minutes for questions and then ask an additional hour's worth of questions himself.\
4. Although the time limits have been established, the Special Master has authority to modestly expand or contract the amount of time for any person asking questions. Although the Court is not now imposing a precise number of minutes which the Special Master can add or subtract, the mantra here is that any modification will be comparatively modest. In order to avoid any confusion, the Special Master can give himself additional time to ask questions of the Setec witness (or witnesses), as well as giving counsel for Procaps and Patheon more or less time than the presumptive 1.25-hour rule.\
5. In order to enhance efficiencies, the parties and the Special Master shall send all proposed exhibits they intend to use at the deposition (or depositions) to the Setec representative (or representatives) at least two days before any deposition is taken. In addition, they shall also serve each other with all proposed exhibits by the same [*9] deadline.\
6. If the Setec representative(s) are willing to travel to Miami for their deposition(s), then Patheon and Procaps shall jointly pay all travel expenses (airfare, hotel, meals, ground transportation, airport parking, etc.) to Setec or the deponent within 7 days of receiving an invoice. If the Setec representative(s) is unwilling to voluntarily appear for deposition in Miami, then the deposition(s) will be in California, at a location of Setec's choosing.\
7. Patheon and Procaps will also jointly pay the Special Master's travel expenses within the same deadline.\
8. Regardless of where the deposition(s) is taken, Patheon and Procaps shall jointly pay the Special Master's fees associated with the deposition by the same deadline.\
9. The deposition(s) must be completed by May 15, 2015.\
10. Patheon shall file the deposition transcript(s) with the Court by May 29, 2015. If Patheon or Procaps files a motion implicating the deposition testimony before May 29, then that filing party must file the transcript(s) on the same day that the motion is filed.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Conclusion
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 The Court grants Patheon's motion and Setec's deposition may be taken under the rules outlined above.\
DONE AND ORDERED in Chambers, in Miami, Florida, April 24, 2015.\
/s/ Jonathon Goodman \
UNITED STATES MAGISTRATE JUDGE
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0  \uc0\u8232 \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 1\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\li539\ri539\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 From the song "Help the Poor," on the King of the Blues album (MCA 1992).\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\li539\ri539\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 2\
The computer forensic expert, deemed the "assisting neutral," testified at the trial and mentioned his deposition. 2012 WL 10750269 , at *3.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 3\
The Court's order imposed time limits on the expert's deposition.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 4\
The district court adopted in part and rejected in part ( 2012 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 132 619, [2012 BL 239164], 2012 WL 4135848 ) the magistrate judge's report and recommendations on spoliation sanctions ( 2012 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 133197 , [2012 BL 441849], 2012 WL 4128385 ).\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 5\
Procaps argues that the purported tardiness violates Local Rule 26.1(h) . The Local Rules were amended somewhat recently, with the changes going into effect on December 1, 2014. See Administrative Order 2014-15 (filed on November 18, 2014). Subsection (h) of the earlier, pre-amendment version of Local Rule 26.1 used to include the 30-day requirement. Subsection (i) now contains the 30-day deadline.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 6\
From the Beatles' "With a Little Help from my Friends" song, from the Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band album (EMI Studios 1967).\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb566\sa1133\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0          
\f0\fs42 General Information\

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 Judge(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Jonathan Goodman\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Related Docket(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 1:12-cv-24356 (S.D. Fla.);\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Topic(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Civil Procedure; Evidence\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Date Filed\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 2015-04-24 00:00:00\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Parties\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 PROCAPS S.A., Plaintiff, v. PATHEON INC., Defendant.\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Court\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 United States District Court for the Southern District of Florida\cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\li674\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\fs20 \cf0 Pagination \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 *
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 BL
\f1\fs24 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\li674\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Majority Opinion > Appendix > 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE MIDDLE DISTRICT OF FLORIDA, ORLANDO DIVISION\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0  \uc0\u8232 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 HEALTH FIRST, INC., Plaintiff, v. RICHARD HYNES, Defendant. 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0  \uc0\u8232 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Case No: 6:11-cv-715-Orl-41KRS \
June 27, 2016, Filed June 27, 2016, Decided \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 For Health First, Inc., Plaintiff: Dominic C. MacKenzie, LEAD ATTORNEY, Holland & Knight, LLP, Jacksonville, FL; Jerome W. Hoffman, Mia Loraine McKown, Kevin W. Cox, LEAD ATTORNEYS, Kevin W. Cox, Holland & Knight, LLP, Tallahassee, FL.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 For Richard Hynes M. D., Defendant: Allan Paxton Whitehead, LEAD ATTORNEY, Frese, Hansen, Anderson, Anderson, Heuston & Whitehead, PA, Melbourne, FL; Christopher Vincent Carlyle, LEAD ATTORNEY, The Carlyle Appellate Law Firm, The Villages, FL.
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 KARLA R. SPAULDING, UNITED STATES MAGISTRATE JUDGE.
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 KARLA R. SPAULDING \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Report and Recommendation 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 TO THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT:
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 This cause came on for consideration without oral argument on the following motion filed herein:\
\pard\pardeftab720\li539\ri539\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 MOTION: PLAINTIFF'S RENEWED MOTION TO DETERMINE AMOUNT AND AWARD [OF] REASONABLE ATTORNEY'S FEES AND NON-TAXABLE COSTS (Doc. No. 217) \
FILED: February 24, 2016 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 I. BACKGROUND.
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 The present litigation began on April 28, 2011, when Plaintiff, Health First, Inc. ("Health First"), represented by counsel with Holland & Knight, filed a three-count complaint against Defendant, Richard A. Hynes, M.D. ("Dr. Hynes"). Health First alleged in Count One that Dr. Hynes violated the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act ("CFAA"), 18 U.S.C. \'a7 1030 , in Count Two that Dr. Hynes violated the Stored Communications Act ("SCA"), 18 U.S.C. \'a7 2701 , et seq., and in Count Three that Dr. Hynes breached a confidentiality agreement. Doc. No. 1. Dr. Hynes filed a motion to dismiss the claims, Doc. No. 11, to which Health First responded, Doc. No. 14. The Court denied the motion. Doc. No. 20. Thereafter, Dr. Hynes answered the complaint, denying almost all of the allegations in the complaint and asserting affirmative defenses. Doc. Nos. 28, 45.\
Thereafter, needlessly contentious discovery ensued. For example, Dr. Hynes filed a motion for sanctions arising from alleged spoliation of evidence, Doc. No. 103, which motion was denied, Doc. No. 147. Health First filed three motions to compel and a motion for reconsideration of the denial of a motion to compel, all of which were denied. Doc. Nos. 59, 65, 70, 72, 83, 84, 87, 94. Health First also repeatedly insisted that this Court must resolve disputes regarding privileges and protections that applied to information it inadvertently produced to counsel for Dr. Hynes even though, the Court eventually learned, a state court judge presiding over other proceedings had already held a multi-day hearing on the issue of privileges, protection and disqualification of Health First's counsel.1 See, e.g., Doc. Nos. 115, 123, 125, 126. Once this Court learned of the state court proceedings, it stayed the present case pending rulings in state court on the privilege, protection and disqualification issues. Doc. No. 123. The presiding judge in the state court proceedings resolved the issues of privileges and protections and denied the motion to disqualify counsel for Health First. Doc. Nos. 129, 132, 133, 137. Nevertheless, Health First continued to assert that this Court must resolve the privileges and [*2] protections disputes, and its motions were denied.2 Doc. Nos. 146, 152, 153, 155, 157. After the state court denied the motion to disqualify counsel for Health First, Dr. Hynes withdrew the motion to disqualify filed in this Court. Doc. No. 141.\
Health First filed a motion for partial summary judgment on liability. Doc. No. 74. Dr. Hynes also filed a motion for summary judgment, and a motion to accept the belated filing of the motion for summary judgment. Doc. Nos. 81, 82. Before the motions for summary judgment were resolved, counsel for the parties prepared and filed their Joint Pretrial Stipulation and related documents. Doc. No. 161. Health First contended that it was entitled to recover its actual damages under the CFAA and the SCA and that it was also entitled to at least statutory damages of $1,000 per violation of the SCA.  Id. at 8.\
On September 17, 2014, the Court granted Health First's motion for summary judgment in part and denied Dr. Hynes' motion for summary judgment. Doc. No. 164. As to the SCA claim, the Court found that Dr. Hynes admitted in a deposition taken on September 24, 2009, that he had forwarded email from an account of Dr. Segina to himself and Dr. Datta. Doc. No. 164, at 4, 21. The Court found that Health First had established that Dr. Hynes was liable on the SCA and breach of confidentiality agreement claims, leaving the issue of liability under the CFAA and damages as questions for the factfinder.  Id. at 22.\
The Court held a bench trial on October 21 and 22, 2014. Doc. Nos. 209, 210. On November 3, 2014, the Court entered its order following the bench trial. Doc. No. 179. The Court found that Health First had established Dr. Hynes' liability for violation of the CFAA. It awarded damages for violation of the CFAA and statutory damages for violation of the SCA, and it declined to award attorney's fees and costs under the SCA, finding that the award of damages was adequate deterrence.  Id. at 11-12.\
Thereafter, following an evidentiary hearing, the Court granted in part Health First's motion to alter or amend the judgment and to tax costs. Doc. No. 192. In that order, the Court vacated its earlier determination that Health First was not entitled to an award of attorneys' fees under the SCA.  Id. at 5. However, the Court renewed its earlier finding that an award of attorneys' fees and non-taxable costs would have "very little deterrent effect."  Id. at 6. The Court found that other considerations favored an award of reasonable attorneys' fees and non-taxable costs based on Dr. Hynes' intentional misconduct that violated the SCA and his general recalcitrance, which caused Health First to bring this case to enforce its rights. Therefore, the Court determined that Health First was "entitled to attorneys' fees and non-taxable costs in a reasonable amount to be determined."  Id. at 7.\
Dr. Hynes appealed the Court's final judgment, and the United States Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit affirmed the Court's judgment. Doc. Nos. 215, 216.3 Thereafter, Health First filed the above-referenced motion supported by the Declaration of Jerome W. Hoffman and supporting exhibits. Doc. No. 217, 217-1, 218, [*3] 218-1, 218-2, 218-3, 218-4. Dr. Hynes filed a response to the motion supported by the Affidavit of David S. Oliver. Doc. Nos. 219, 231.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 II. ANALYSIS.
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 The only statute authorizing an award of attorneys' fees applicable in this case is the SCA, which provides that in the case of a successful civil action to enforce liability, "the court may assess the costs of the action, together with reasonable attorney fees determined by the court." 18 U.S.C. \'a7 2707(c) . The SCA also provides that appropriate relief in a civil action under the SCA includes "other litigation costs reasonably incurred."  Id.\'a7 2707(b)(3) . The award of attorney's fees and other litigation costs is discretionary. Vista Mktg., LLC v. Burkett, 812 F.3d 954 , 977 (11th Cir. 2016).\
The Court has determined that Health First is entitled to attorneys' fees and non-taxable costs in a reasonable amount.4 I will discuss the award of attorneys' fees first, followed by a discussion of an award of non-taxable costs.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 A. Attorneys' Fees.
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Under a federal fee-shifting statute, attorneys' fees are calculated by determining a lodestar amount and then, if necessary, adjusting that amount to ensure that the fee amount is reasonable. Cheng v. Romo, No. 11-10007-DJC, [2014 BL 64523], 2014 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 28374 , 2014 WL 882796 , at *1 (D. Mass. Mar. 6, 2014) (citing Pennsylvania v. Del. Valley Citizens' Council for Clean Air, 478 U.S. 546 , 564-65 , 106 S. Ct. 3088 , 92 L. Ed. 2d 439 (1986)). The lodestar fee is calculated by multiplying the reasonable hourly rates of counsel by the number of hours reasonably expended on the litigation. The party seeking an award of attorney's fees bears the burden of establishing and documenting the hours expended and the hourly rates charged. Id . \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 1. Hourly Rates.
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 In this case, Health First seeks attorneys' fees for the following legal professionals at the hourly rates specified below:\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Jerome W. Hoffman, Esq.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $385.00 per hour\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Dominic C. MacKenzie, Esq.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $385.00 per hour\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 David C. Borucke, Esq.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $375.00 per hour\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Mia L. McKown, Esq.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $355.00 per hour\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Nathan A. Adams, IV, Esq.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $345.00 per hour\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Matthew H. Mears, Esq.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $255.00 per hour\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Kevin W. Cox, Esq.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $255.00 per hour\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Linda Edgar, Paralegal\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $225.00 per hour\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Georgianna Hatch, Paralegal\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $165.00 per hour\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
Doc. No. 217-1, at 5-6. During the litigation of this case, Attorneys Hoffman, MacKenzie, Borucke, McKown and Adams were partners at Holland & Knight.  Id. at 5 Attorneys Hoffman, MacKenzie, Borucke and McKown each had more than twenty years of experience, and Attorney Adams had almost twenty years of experience. Id. Attorneys Mears and Cox were associates with Holland & Knight. Id. Attorney Mears graduated from law school in 2004, and Attorney Cox graduated from law school in 2006.  Id. at 5-6. Paralegal Edgar has more than eleven years of experience in litigation support/eDiscovery services. Doc. No. 218-2, at 3. Paralegal Hatch has more than sixteen years of experience working as a paralegal in complex litigation matters. Id. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Frank Bedill, Esq., the fee expert for Health First, opined that these hourly rates are reasonable, albeit noting that the rate sought for Paralegal Edgar is "slightly on the high side." Doc. No. 217-1, at 5-6. Dr. Hynes' fee expert, David S. Oliver, Esq., does not dispute the hourly rates sought except for the rate for Paralegal Edgar. Doc. No. 231, at 9. Attorney Oliver opined that $[*4] 175.00 per hour is reasonable for Paralegal Edgar's compensable work.  Id. at 10.\
Accordingly, I recommend in the absence of objection that the Court find that the hourly rates sought for compensable work of every professional except Paralegal Edgar is reasonable. I further recommend that the Court find that $225.00 per hour exceeds the reasonable hourly rate for the work of a paralegal in central Florida, particularly in light of the lesser hourly rate sought for the work of Paralegal Hatch, and reduce Paralegal Edgar's hourly rate to $175.00.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 2. Reasonable Number of Hours.
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Health First contends that it is entitled to recover fees incurred "as a result of litigation strategies pursued by Dr. Hynes that were particularly unnecessary and . . . the fees associated with pretrial preparation and trial itself." Doc. No. 217, at 4. While it does not seek fees for all the work its counsel performed in this case, Health First has not shown that all of the work for which it does seek fees was necessary for the litigation of the SCA claim, which is the only claim for which an award of fees is authorized. Dr. Hynes objects to the fee request due to this lack of segregation of the fee request to work performed on the SCA claim. Doc. No. 231, at 8, 10. I will address this objection below.\
Dr. Hynes also objects to the number of professionals and the amount of time worked on a case in which the "SCA claim was ripe for adjudication on Summary Judgment the day this lawsuit was filed."  Id. at 12. While the record references an admission Dr. Hynes made before this case was filed that he accessed Dr. Segina's emails and forwarded them, Dr. Hynes was entitled to discovery and to take efforts to defend himself before the Court could resolve a summary judgment motion. See, e.g., Doc. No. 103, at 4 ("HYNES has the right to make a determination for himself whether or not there is additional information that proves his position and allows HYNES to defend himself against the allegations contained within the Complaint."). Therefore, to the extent that work performed was necessitated by discovery requests made, motions or other papers served or filed by Dr. Hynes, and preparation and trial of the case, an award of attorneys' fees is appropriate.\
Dr. Hynes also objects generally to the work performed as (1) excessive for the tasks performed, (2) because each time entry did not indicate the amount of time performed for each task in a single time entry, and (3) because the work was often duplicative or redundant. Doc. No. 231, at 15-16. I will also address these objections below.\
Finally, while Health First identified categories of work for which it seeks fees, see, e.g., Doc. No. 218-1, at 3, it did not favor the Court with a breakdown of the time entries showing the tasks performed in each category by each professional. I have conducted a page-by-page, line-by-line review of the time sheets submitted by Health First. Doc. No. 218-3. I have endeavored to capture all of the work performed in each category within the time periods identified by Health First to the extent that work in each category can be determined from the time [*5] entries. Rather than detail each time entry in the voluminous time sheets, I have calculated the total hours worked in each category within the time frame requested by Health First (Doc. No. 218-1, at 3) and, except for the time worked responding to a spoliation motion, I have detailed only my reduction of hours when necessary. See Loranger v. Stierheim, 10 F.3d 776 , 783 (11th Cir. 1994) (per curiam). Accordingly, I recommend that the Court not entertain objections to time entries that Health First may contend were overlooked in any category due to Health First's failure to breakdown its time entries to correspond to the categories of work for which it seeks fees.\
Health First requests fees for the following categories of work:\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 a. Work Performed Responding to Dr. Hynes' eDiscovery Requests.
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Dr. Hynes served a request for production of documents on Health First in September 2011, which included requests for copies of email, server logs, activity logs, e-discovery logs and network log-in logs/information. Doc. No. 235-1. Health First seeks fees in this category for work performed between October 2011 and January 2012. Doc. No. 218-1, at 3. Because Health First was required to respond to the discovery request, I recommend that the Court find that Health First reasonably incurred attorneys' fees in the amount of $29,554.00, as follows:\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 PROFESSIONAL \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 HOURS WORKED \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 HOURLY RATE \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 FEE \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Hoffman\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 0.7\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $385.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $269.50\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 McKown\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 4.4\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $355.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $1,562.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Cox\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 44.6\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $255.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $11,373.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Mears\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 51.9\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $255.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $13,234.50\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Edgar\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 17.8\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $175.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $3,115.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 TOTAL FEES:\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $29,554.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
Doc. No. 218-3, at 2-84.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 I have excluded from the compensable work in this category the following time entries because they relate to work performed by Health First in preparing its computer forensic expert, Adam Sharp, which was not work required in response to Dr. Hynes's eDiscovery request. When various tasks were included in a single time entry without designating the amount of time worked on each task, often referred to as "block billing," I have reduced the work in the exercise of discretion rather than disallowing all of the work. See Bujanowski v. Kocontes, No. 8:08-cv-0390-T-33EAJ, [2009 BL 365661], 2009 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 50659 , 2009 WL 1564263 , at *2 (M.D. Fla. Feb. 2, 2009), adopted by 2009 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 50652 , 2009 WL 1564255 (M.D. Fla. May 1, 2009), aff'd, 359 F. App'x 112 (11th Cir. 2009). The time reduced or not allowed in this category is as follows:\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 DATE \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 PROFESSIONAL \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 HOURS \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 TASK PERFORMED \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 WORKED \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 10/27/11\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Cox\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 1.0\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 [I]nvestigation and development of list of\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 potential experts if needed, including\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 review of other decisions addressing CFAA\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 and SCA claims and review of other\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 references listing computer forensic\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 experts; sent summary of same to M. Mears\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 [part of a block billing entry].\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 11/10/11\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Mears\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 0.50\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Prepare email correspondence to Adam Sharp,\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 computer forensic expert, re retaining him\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 as an expert and discussing materials we\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 will be sending in preparation for telephone\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 conference [part of a block billing entry].\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 11/15/11\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Cox\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 0.10\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Review correspondence from K. Nowakowski\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 re collection of computer hard drives for\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 delivery to expert.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 11/15/11\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Mears\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 1.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Gather documents for our computer forensic\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 expert to review with emphasis on\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 identifying ecopies of the documents that\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Dr. Hynes printed and gave to Levenstein.[*6] \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 11/16/11\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Cox\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 0.40\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Review issues and communications with A.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Sharp for purposes of providing necessary\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 background information for analysis [part\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 of a block billing entry].\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 11/18/11\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Cox\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 0.20\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Email to A. Sharp re expert consulting\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 issues and schedule.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 11/21/11\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Cox\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 0.60\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Multiple communications with A. Sharp and\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 D. Bray re status of collection of hard\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 drives and emails.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 11/21/11\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Hoffman\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 0.10\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Exchange e-mail correspondence with\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 co-counsel regarding expert analysis of\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Segina e-mails.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 12/01/11\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Cox\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 0.20\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Communications re scheduling of call with\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 expert, Retain reseller and Retain vendor.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 12/06/11\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Mears\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 1.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Follow up telephone conference with Adam\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Sharp, computer forensic expert, re issues\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 to include in his expert report [part of a\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 block billing entry].\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 12/07/11\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Mears\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 0.20\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 [E]mail Adam Sharp re scheduling conferences\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 to discuss his findings [part of a block\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 billing entry].\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 12/09/11\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Mears\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 1.0\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 [A]nalysis of issues that should be included\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 in our expert report [part of a block\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 billing entry].\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
Doc. No. 218-3, at 30, 34-35, 39, 41-42, 45.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 b. Work Performed Responding to Dr. Hynes' Request to Inspect Health First Computer Servers and Workstations.
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 On January 24, 2012, counsel for Dr. Hynes requested that his expert be permitted to inspect Health First's and Holmes Regional Medical Center's Windows Domain Controller/Backup Domain Controller (server), the end user workstation that Dr. Hynes allegedly used to obtain access to emails of Dr. Segina, and to randomly inspect other workstations at Holmes Regional Medical Center. Doc. No. 103-2. Discussions ensued between counsel for the parties on this issue. Doc. Nos. 103-3, 103-4, 103-5, 103-6, 103-7, 103-8. Ultimately, Health First agreed to make the end user workstation allegedly used by Dr. Hynes available for inspection. Doc. No. 103-8, at 1. Health First responded that it did not use the Domain Controller technology and that Health First was not willing to allow Dr. Hynes' expert to inspect any of its servers.  Id. at 2.\
Because Dr. Hynes made these requests for inspections, the time counsel for Health First reasonably worked in responding to these requests is compensable. Health First seeks reimbursement in this category for work performed in January and February 2012. Doc. No. 218-1, at 3. That time is as follows:\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 PROFESSIONAL \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 HOURS WORKED \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 HOURLY RATE \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 FEES \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Hoffman\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 5.3\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $385.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $2,040.50\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Cox\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 10.6\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $255.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $2,703.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Mears\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 0.2\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $255.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $51.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 TOTAL FEES:\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $4,794.50\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
Doc. No. 218-3, at 63-96.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 I have excluded or reduced work in this category that did not relate specifically to inspection of computer equipment or was improperly included in a block billing entry, as follows:\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 DATE \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 PROFESSIONAL \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 HOURS WORKED \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 HOURLY RATE \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 01/24/12\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 McKown\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 0.10\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $355.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 01/26/12\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Cox\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 0.10\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $255.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 01/27/12\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Hoffman\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 0.20\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $385.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 02/02/12\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Cox\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 0.30\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $255.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb108\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 DATE \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 TASK PERFORMED \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 01/24/12\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Receive and review letter from A. Whitehead regarding discovery\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 and other case management deadlines.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 01/26/12\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 [C]onfer with M. McKown re status of subpoena to Osler [part\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 of a block billing entry].\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 01/27/12\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Review incoming Responses to Motion to Compel from BOC and Dr.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Datta.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 02/02/12\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 [R]eview documents related to Osler production; review details\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 regarding depositions [*7] of Health First witnesses [part of a\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 block billing entry].\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
Doc. No. 218-3, at 77-78, 80, 87. Accordingly, I recommend that the Court find that Health First reasonably incurred $4,794.50 in fees in this category of work.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 c. Work Performed Seeking Discovery from Dr. Hynes' Computer Forensic Expert.
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Dr. Hynes designated Kyle Siptroth as its computer forensic expert. The Joint Pretrial Stipulation reflects that Mr. Siptroth would offer the following opinions:\
\pard\pardeftab720\li539\ri539\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 The Defendant's expert, Kyle Siptroth, will opine that there is no evidence to indicate that Dr. Hynes used Dr. Segina's user name and password to gain access to Health First's computing environment, including Dr. Segina's e-mails. Mr. Siptroth will also testify that leaving a computer or software application unattended is in violation of Section 111.A.1.c of the system access policy of Health First. He will also testify that, because Dr. Segina's e-mail was unattended, was not properly secured and provided other users open access to the e-mail, as a result, Dr. Segina's computer use was not in compliance with the Health First policies.\
Doc. No. 161, at 8. It appears that Dr. Hynes intended to rely on Mr. Siptroth's opinion to establish lack of intent on both the CFAA and the SCA claims. Doc. No. 164, at 20, 22. Because Dr. Hynes intended to rely upon Mr. Siptroth's testimony at trial, it was reasonable for counsel for Health First to review his opinion and to depose him. MacKenzie taking Mr. Siptroth's deposition. Doc. No. 218-3, at 97. Therefore, I recommend that the Court not award fees for this work. Because Attorney Hoffman was the supervising attorney, it was appropriate for him to review the expert report and the summary prepared by Attorney Cox.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Health First seeks fees in this category for work performed in February 2012. Doc. No. 218-1, at 3. The following hours of work fall within this category:\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 PROFESSIONAL \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 HOURS WORKED \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 HOURLY RATE \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 FEE \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Hoffman\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 0.80\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $385.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $308.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 MacKenzie\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 14.3\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $385.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $5,505.50\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Cox\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 1.10\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $255.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $280.50\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 TOTAL FEES:\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $6,094.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
Doc. No. 218-3, at 97-115. There is an insufficient showing why 0.20 hours of work by Attorney McKown on 02/15/12 reviewing Mr. Siptroth's expert report was necessary in light of Attorney\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Therefore, I recommend that the Court find that Health First reasonably incurred $6,094.00 in fees in this category of work.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 d. Work Performed Regarding Dr. Hynes' Motion for Summary Judgment.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Health First also seeks fees for work performed in April, July and August 2012, responding to Dr. Hynes' motion for summary judgment and his motion to file his motion for summary judgment out-of-time. Doc. No. 218-1, at 3. In the summary judgment motion, Dr. Hynes disputed Health First's standing to bring claims under the CFAA and the SCA, among other arguments. Doc. No. 164, at 6. Because it was required to respond to these motions, Health First should be compensated for the work reasonably performed in preparing its responses.\
The following hours of work fall within this category:\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 PROFESSIONAL \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 HOURS WORKED \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 HOURLY RATE \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 FEES \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Hoffman\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 6.3\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $385.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $2,425.50\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 MacKenzie\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 7.6\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $385.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $2,926.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Cox\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 38.7\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $255.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $9,868.50\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 TOTAL FEES:\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $15,220.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
Doc. No. 218-3, at 117-49.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 I have [*8] not included in this category the following work:\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 DATE \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 PROFESSIONAL \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 HOURS WORKED \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 HOURLY RATE \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 07/30/12\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Hoffman\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 0.20\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $385.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 07/30/12\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Hoffman\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 0.10\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $385.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 07/31/12\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 MacKenzie\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 1.10\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $385.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 07/31/12\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Hoffman\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 0.1\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $385.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 08/14/12\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Hoffman\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 0.10\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $385.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb108\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 DATE \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 TASK PERFORMED \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 07/30/12\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Telephone conference with D. MacKenzie regarding possible Rule\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 11 letter and motion to A. Whitehead regarding false assertion\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 that Dr. Hynes asserted 5th Amendment Privilege at his\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 deposition.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 07/30/12\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Exchange e-mail correspondence with co-counsel regarding\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 false statement in Dr. Hynes' reply memo.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 07/31/12\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Receive, review and respond to electronic letter form D.5 \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 re Hynes' reply (.1); Receive and review several electronic\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 letters from K. Cox re same (.1); Draft and review with further\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 and final edits proposed letter to A. Whitehead re Fifth\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Amendment representations, Rule 11 notice, send via electronic\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 mail to team for review and consideration (.9). Mathias\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 07/31/12\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Review and comment on draft correspondence to A. Whitehead\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 regarding false statement in Reply Memo.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 08/14/12\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Review proposed correspondence to A. Whitehead and send\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 comments to co-counsel.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
Doc. No. 218-3, at 146-47, 149. Ultimately, no Rule 11 motion was filed, and Dr. Hynes did not amend his reply memorandum. Therefore, discussions regarding a Rule 11 letter are not properly compensable in this category of work.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 In sum, I recommend that the Court find that $15,220.00 in fees were reasonably incurred for work performed in connection with Dr. Hynes' motion for summary judgment.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 e. Work Performed Regarding Dr. Hynes' Motion for Sanctions Based on Alleged Spoliation of Evidence (Doc. No. 103).\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 On September 5, 2012, Dr. Hynes filed a motion for sanctions due to alleged spoliation of evidence (the "Spoliation Motion") in which he asked that the Court strike the complaint or, alternatively, deem Dr. Hynes' statements regarding the events underlying the lawsuit to be true. He alleged that Health First failed to preserve information electronically stored on its server(s). Doc. No. 103. Health First responded to the Spoliation Motion on September 24, 2012. Doc. No. 113. The Court denied the Spoliation Motion on May 14, 2014, finding that Dr. Hynes had not established the necessary elements of spoliation. Doc. No. 147.\
Health First seeks fees for work performed in August 2012, September 2012, and May 2014 in connection with Dr. Hynes' Spoliation Motion. Doc. No. 218-1, at 3. The time entries regarding the Spoliation Motion often include time spent on other tasks, such as responding to the motion for disqualification and related issues. See, e.g., Doc. No. 218-3, at 169-76. When the time entries assigned hours to each task, I have included in the following chart only the time attributable to work on the Spoliation Motion.6 To the extent that time entries during this period record work performed on issues other than the Spoliation Motion or are too vague to determine the reason the work was performed, I have not included those hours in the following chart:\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 PROFESSIONAL \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 HOURS WORKED \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 HOURLY RATE \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 FEES \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Hoffman\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 3.6\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $385.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $1,386.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 MacKenzie\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 1.3\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $385.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $500.50\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Cox\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 48.2\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $255.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $12,291.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 TOTAL [*9] FEES:\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $14,177.50\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
Doc. No. 218-3, at 150-74, 208. The total amount of fees for this work is substantial for responding to a motion in which Dr. Hynes did not establish any of the elements of spoliation. Nevertheless, because Dr. Hynes sought essentially terminating sanctions, Health First cannot be faulted for devoting time to preparing a thorough response supported by evidence and legal authority. Therefore, I recommend that that Court find that Health First reasonably incurred fees in the amount of $14,177.50 for responding to the Spoliation Motion.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 f. Work Performed Regarding Dr. Hynes' Renewed Motion in Limine (Doc. No. 120).\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 On October 2, 2012, Dr. Hynes filed a renewed motion in limine, Doc. No. 120, to which Health First responded on May 12, 2014, Doc. No. 144, after the stay of the litigation was lifted. Health First seeks fees for work performed in August 2012, September 2012, January 2013 and May 2014. However, because the renewed motion in limine was not filed until October 2, 2012, work before that date necessarily was not directed to the renewed motion.7 The work performed in connection with the renewed motion in limine is as follows:\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 PROFESSIONAL \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 HOURS WORKED \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 HOURLY RATE \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 FEE \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 MacKenzie\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 1.8\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $385.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $693.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Cox\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 12.2\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $255.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $3,111.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 TOTAL FEES:\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $3,804.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
Doc. No. 218-3, at 150-209.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Accordingly, I recommend that the Court find that Health First reasonably incurred $3,804.00 in fees in connection with responding to Dr. Hynes' renewed motion in limine (Doc. No. 120).\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 g. Work Performed Related to Dr. Hynes' Motion for Disqualification (Doc. No. 104) and the Resulting Stay.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 On September 5, 2012, Dr. Hynes filed a motion to disqualify Holland & Knight, counsel for Health First, based on counsel's review of allegedly privileged documents in related state court proceedings. Doc. No. 104. Neither counsel for Dr. Hynes nor counsel for Health First promptly advised the Court that the Honorable Charles Holcomb, a Circuit Court judge in one of the state court proceedings, held an evidentiary hearing on a similar motion to disqualify filed in his case. Counsel confirmed in a discovery hearing held on October 2, 2012, that Judge Holcomb was resolving the issues underlying the motion to disqualify filed in this case and related privilege issues. Doc. No. 121 (digital recording). On October 3, 2012, after the Court learned of the proceedings before Judge Holcomb, the then-presiding District Judge stayed the litigation pending rulings from Judge Holcomb. Doc. No. 123. Counsel for Health First fought the stay, filing a motion for reconsideration. Doc. Nos. 125, 126. Counsel for Health First filed motions requesting that this Court rule on the privilege issues that Judge Holcomb had under consideration and ultimately resolved (Doc. Nos. 115, 146). After Judge Holcomb denied the motion to disqualify, Dr. Hynes withdrew his motion to disqualify Holland & Knight filed in this case. Doc. Nos. 134-1, 134-2, 134-3, 141.\
Based on this history, the extensive work Holland & Knight performed responding to the motion to disqualify in this case, including filing a motion for reconsideration and motions to determine documents [*10] not to be privileged, was unnecessary and, therefore, excessive. Had counsel simply informed the Court that Judge Holcomb was resolving the underlying issues, the Court would have stayed the case without the need for Health First to file its response to the motion to disqualify and related motions. For these reasons, I recommend that the Court find that Health First only reasonably incurred fees in the total amount of $1,232.00 related to the motion to disqualify by preparing for and attending a hearing before me in which counsel discussed the proceedings before Judge Holcomb, as follows:\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 DATE \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 PROFESSIONAL \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 HOURS WORKED \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 HOURLY RATE \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 FEE \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 10/02/12\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 MacKenzie\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 1.908 \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $385.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $731.50\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 10/02/12\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Hoffman\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 1.30\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $385.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $500.50\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 TOTAL FEES \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $1,232.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
Doc. No. 218-3, at 179.9 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 When the case was stayed, the Court required the parties to file periodic status reports on Judge Holcomb's rulings. Doc. No. 123. Counsel for Health First also reasonably worked on a motion to lift the stay after Judge Holcomb entered his ruling, because counsel for Dr. Hynes opposed lifting the stay. Doc. No. 134, at 5. The following time was worked to comply with the Court's orders:\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 PROFESSIONAL \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 HOURS WORKED \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 HOURLY RATE \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 FEE \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Hoffman\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 7.5\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $385.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $2,887.50\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 MacKenzie\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 1.2\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $385.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $462.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 McKown\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 2.4\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $355.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $852.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Cox\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 22.3\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $255.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $5,686.50\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 TOTAL FEES:\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $9,888.0010 \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
Doc. No. 218-3, at 180-99. The stay was lifted on April 9, 2014, and, accordingly, hours worked on and after that date are not compensable fees in this category. Doc. No. 139.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 In sum, in this category I recommend that the Court find that Health First reasonably incurred $11,120.00 ($1,232.00 + $9,888.00) in fees in this category of work.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 h. Work Performed Preparing For and Attending Trial. 11 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 In this category, Health First requests fees for the work its counsel performed beginning in June 2014, after the stay was lifted, for the purpose for preparing for trial on all issues and attending trial. Doc. No. 217, at 8; Doc. No. 218-1, at 3. These hours are as follows:\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 PROFESSIONAL \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 HOURS WORKED \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 HOURLY RATE \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 FEE \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Hoffman\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 137.3\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $385.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $52,860.50\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 MacKenzie\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 21.6\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $385.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $8,316.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 McKown\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 51.1\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $355.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $18,140.50\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Cox\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 125.9\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $255.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $32,104.50\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Mears\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 36.6\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $255.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $9,333.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Hatch\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 89.4\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $160.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $14,304.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 TOTAL FEES:\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $135,058.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
Doc. No. 218-3, at 214-63.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 I recommend that the Court find that the hours worked as reflected in the foregoing table were reasonable. Nevertheless, Dr. Hynes' objection that Health First has not apportioned the work performed to include only that needed to prove damages on the SCA claim is, in my view, well taken. The District Judge who presided over the bench trial in this case is in the best position, in the exercise of his discretion, to determine whether time in this category should be reduced, and to what extent, to address only the work needed on the SCA claim, which is the only claim that provides for an award of attorneys' fees. Therefore, while I recommend that the Court find that Health First reasonably incurred $135,058.00 in fees for its counsel's preparation for and prosecution of its claims at trial, I further recommend that the Court consider reducing the fees, in the exercise of discretion, to account for work that was not necessarily [*11] performed to prove the SCA damages claim at trial.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 3. Adjustment to the Lodestar Attorneys' Fees.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Dr. Hynes argues that the Court should also adjust the lodestar attorneys' fees downward in light of the consideration of the factors set forth in Johnson v. Georgia Highway Express, Inc., 488 F.2d 714 (5th Cir. 1974). Doc. No. 231, at 10-14. These factors and their application to this case are as follows:\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 a. The time and labor required.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 As discussed above, much of the time and labor required by counsel for Health First in this case was in response to discovery requests made by and motions and other papers served by Dr. Hynes. Trial of the case was also required because the case was not settled. Because the Court will determine the reasonable number of hours expended by counsel for Health First, the first Johnson factor is adequately addressed in the lodestar attorneys' fee calculation.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 b. The novelty and difficulty of the questions.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 The claims asserted by Health First were not issues of first impression nor were they particularly difficult to establish. The Court's decision in this case did not create new law. See Johnson, 488 F.2d at 718 . Accordingly, this factor is neutral.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 c. The skill required to perform the legal service properly.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 In light of the contentious nature of this litigation, and the substantial technical issues regarding collection and production of electronically stored information, Health First needed skilled counsel to address the numerous issues raised by Dr. Hynes. There were, however, substantial and unnecessary duplications of effort by Health First's counsel at almost every stage of the litigation. See, e.g., Doc. No. 218-3; Doc. No. 219, at 14-15. Therefore, I recommend that the Court find that this Johnson factor weighs in favor of a reduction in the lodestar attorneys' fees.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 d. The preclusion of other employment by the attorney due to acceptance of the case.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Health First offered no evidence that Holland & Knight was precluded from other employment as a result of representing Health First in this case. This factor is, therefore, neutral.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 e. The customary fee.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 The fee expert for Dr. Hynes opines that this factor is neutral based on the lodestar attorneys' fee calculation. Doc. No. 231, at 12.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 f. Whether the fee is fixed or contingent.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 The record reflects that Health First paid the fees billed by its counsel.12 Because Health First will not recover a fee greater than it agreed to pay, this factor is neutral.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 g. Time limitations imposed by the client or the circumstances.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Health First has not established that it was under significant time constraints in this litigation. Therefore, this factor is neutral.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 h. The amount involved and the results obtained.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Health First recovered "make whole" damages under the CFAA and it also recovered statutory damages under the SCA. Dr. Hynes argues that because the "make whole" damages were awarded under the CFAA, the results Health First obtained under the SCA were minimal. I am not persuaded that the manner in which the Court allocated damages among the causes of action establishes that the results obtained under the SCA claim were [*12] minimal. See generally Cheng, [2014 BL 64523], 2014 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 28374 , 2014 WL 882796 , at *2. Accordingly, this factor is neutral.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 i. The experience, reputation and ability of the attorneys.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 This factor is adequately addressed by the lodestar attorneys' fees. Therefore, it is neutral.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 j. The undesirability of the case.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Health First has not established that the case was undesirable. Therefore, this factor is neutral.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 k. The nature and length of the professional relationship with the client.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 The numerous cases in which Holland & Knights represents Health First shows that there was a substantial relationship between counsel and the client. There is no evidence, however, that Holland & Knight discounted its fee based on this relationship.13 Johnson, 488 F.2d at 719 . Therefore, this factor is neutral.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 l. Awards in similar cases.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Neither Health First nor Dr. Hynes offered evidence of fee awards in similar litigation. I note that in Cheng, the court awarded Plaintiff $241,073.03 in attorneys' fees for litigating an SCA case that resolved at summary judgment. Cheng, [2014 BL 64523], 2014 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 28374 , 2014 WL 882796 , at *5. Therefore, this factor is neutral.\
On balance, I recommend that the Court find that the Johnson factors support a reduction in the lodestar attorneys' fee to account for the duplication of effort arising from counsel for Health First taking a team approach on most of the issues in the case. While I recognize that contributions from each of the lawyers likely were considered by members of the team to be useful, the case could have been thoroughly litigated without the extensive review and discussion among the team of lawyers assigned to the case as reflected in the time sheets.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 4. Lodestar Attorneys' Fee.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 In sum, I recommend that the Court find that the lodestar attorneys' fees are $219,822.00. I further recommend that the Court reduce this lodestar attorneys' fees, in the exercise of discretion, to account for work performed that was not necessary for litigation of the SCA claim and for the duplication of work by Health First's team of attorneys. The Court may use an across-the-board reduction.14 Loranger, 10 F.3d at 783 .\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 B. Litigation Expenses.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 As noted above, the SCA provides for an award of "other litigation costs reasonably incurred." 18 U.S.C. \'a7 2707(b)(3) . Health First seeks its litigation expenses in only three categories: (1) Health First's expert costs related to Dr. Hynes' request to inspect Health First's computer equipment; (2) fees charged by Dr. Hynes' computer forensic expert for taking his deposition; and (3) fees of its fee expert, Attorney Bedill. Doc. No. 217, at 11-12. I will discuss each category in turn:\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 1. Costs of Adam Sharp, Health First's Computer Forensic Expert.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Health First states as follows:\
\pard\pardeftab720\li539\ri539\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 The only costs paid to Mr. Sharp being claimed in this motion . . . are related to services he provided in connection with Dr. Hynes' request for his own expert (Kyle Siptroth) to inspect the Health First[] computer servers and the work stations from the physician's lounge where he accessed and printed Dr. Segina's emails. Mr. Sharp provided consulting services to Health First on the risks associated with an inspection of the servers, advised on the best practices to conduct an inspection of the workstations [*13] from a forensic perspective, reviewed data from the specific station used by Dr. Hynes to provide to Dr. Hynes' expert, facilitated the use of a forensic image of the hard drive for the inspection, and traveled to and monitored the actual inspection by Mr. Siptroth.\
Doc. No. 217, at 12 (citation omitted).\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Dr. Hynes argues that none of Mr. Sharp's work is compensable because the inspection of Health First's computer equipment related only to the CFAA claim. Doc. No. 231, at 14. This argument is not persuasive because, among other things, Dr. Hynes argued that the inspections were necessary to determine whether Dr. Hynes intentionally obtained unauthorized access to the email account of another physician, Doc. No. 103-4, at 1, which was an issue he raised in defense of the SCA claim, Doc. No. 162, at 2.\
Health First submitted the invoice and billing statement from E-Hounds, Inc., Mr. Sharp's company, for this work in the total amount of $4,532.00. Doc. No. 218-4, at 2. Mr. Sharp charged $300.00 per hour for his work, which is reasonable in the absence of objection. I note, however, that this invoice includes 0.50 hours at $300.00 per hour for Mr. Sharp's work on 02/15/2012 for a "Conf Call KC Review opposing report." Id. This work does not fall within the work Health First described above. Therefore, I recommend that Mr. Sharp's bill be reduced by $150.00, and that the Court award Health First $4,382.00 in litigation expenses for the work of Mr. Sharp.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 2. Fee Charged by Dr. Hynes' Computer Forensic Expert for Attending His Deposition.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 As discussed above, Health First reasonably took the deposition of Mr. Siptroth, Dr. Hynes' computer forensic expert. The invoices from AgileTek, Mr. Siptroth's company, reflect charges of $250.00 per hour for travel to and from the deposition and charges of $350.00 per hour for his time attending the deposition, for a total of $2,300.00, as well as other charges for which Health First does not seek reimbursement in the present motion. Doc. No. 218-4, at 4. Health First seeks litigation expenses in the amount of $2,260.00, because the Court has already taxed $40.00 in a witness fee paid to Mr. Siptroth. Doc. No. 217, at 13. Because these are charges billed by Dr. Hynes' expert, I recommend that the Court award Health First litigation expenses in this category in the amount of $2,260.00.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 3. Fee Charged by Attorney Bedill, Health First's Fee Expert.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Attorney Bedill charged Health First $5,390.00 for preparing his declaration in support of the initial motion for attorneys' fees, Doc. No. 195-1, at 9, and an additional $1,365.00 for preparing his second declaration in support of the renewed motion for attorneys' fees, Doc. No. 217-1, at 10, for a total of $6,755.00. This is less than the amount Attorney Oliver charged Dr. Hynes for preparing his declaration in response to the renewed motion for attorneys' fees. Doc. No. 231, at 16. Fee experts provide great assistance to the Court in resolving motions for an award of attorneys' fees and litigation expenses especially in cases of this complexity. Therefore, I recommend that the Court award Health First $6,755.00 in litigation expenses for the work of Attorney Bedill.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 4. Total Litigation [*14] Expenses.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 In sum, I recommend that the Court award Health First a total of $13,397.00 in litigation expenses.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 III. RECOMMENDATION.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 For the reasons stated above, I respectfully recommend that the Court do the following:\
A. GRANT in part and DENY in part Plaintiff's Renewed Motion to Determine Amount and Award [of] Reasonable Attorney's Fees and Non-Taxable Costs (Doc. No. 217);\
B. AWARD Health First attorneys' fees in a reasonable amount based on the lodestar attorney's fee as may be further adjusted to account for litigation of issues other than the SCA claim and for duplication of effort by counsel for Health First; and, C. AWARD Health First litigation costs in the amount of $13,397.00.15 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 NOTICE TO PARTIES\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 A party has fourteen days from this date to file written objections to the Report and Recommendation's factual findings and legal conclusions. A party's failure to file written objections waives that party's right to challenge on appeal any unobjected-to factual finding or legal conclusion the district judge adopts from the Report and Recommendation. See 11th Cir. R. 3-1 .\
Recommended in Orlando, Florida on June 27, 2016.\
/s/ Karla R. Spaulding \
KARLA R. SPAULDING\
UNITED STATES MAGISTRATE JUDGE\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 APPENDIX.\
I. WORK PERFORMED REGARDING DR. HYNES' MOTION FOR SANCTIONS BASED ON ALLEGED SPOLIATION OF EVIDENCE (DOC. NO. 103).\
A. Allowed Time.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 DATE \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 PROFESSIONAL \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 HOURS \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 TASK PERFORMED \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 NOTES \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 WORKED \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 08/31/12\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Hoffman\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 0.2\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Review incoming Motions\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Block billing entry\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 in Limine, Motion for\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 for which 0.2\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Sanctions and Motion to\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 hours is allowed\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Disqualify.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 for review of the\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Spoliation Motion.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 09/03/12\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Cox\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 0.5\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 [C]ontinue to review\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Other parts of the\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 background documents for\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 time entry are not\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 purposes of response to\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 work performed\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 motion for sanctions based\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 on Spoliation\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 on spoliation (.5).\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Motion.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 09/04/12\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Hoffman\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 0.30\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Review e-mail\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 correspondence from K.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Cox regarding Response\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 to spoliation motion and\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 discuss response.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 09/05/12\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Cox\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 0.5\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Review motions in limine\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Block billing entry\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 and for spoliation and\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 for which is 0.50\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 continue to analyze\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 hours allocated to\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 arguments in defense of\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Spoliation Motion.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 same [0.50]. . . .\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 09/05/12\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Hoffman\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 0.20\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Internal conference\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 responses to Motion with\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 K. Cox regarding for\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Sanctions.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 09/05/12\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Hoffman\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 0.20\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Review incoming motions\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Block billing entry\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 to disqualify, sanctions\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 for which 0.20\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 and in limine as filed.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 hours is allocated\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 to Spoliation\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Motion.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 09/06/12\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Cox\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 0.80\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Review background\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 correspondence, hearing\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 transcript, orders and other\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 materials addressing ESI\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 preservation early in\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 litigation, and forward to\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 J. Hoffman, for purposes\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 of background in\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 addressing motion for\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 spoliation sanctions.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 09/13/12\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Cox\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 2.40\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Continue to prepare\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 response to motion for\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 spoliation (2.4) . . . .\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 09/14/12\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Cox\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 2.50\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 [C]ontinue to prepare\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Other parts of this\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 response to motion for\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 time entry are not\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 spoliation and review\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 work performed\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 underlying materials\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 on Spoliation\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 related to same (2.5) . . . .\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Motion.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 09/15/12\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Cox\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 7.10\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Continue to prepare\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 response to motion for\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 sanctions due to alleged\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 spoliation of electronically\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 stored information.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 09/16/12\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Cox\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 9.50\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Continue to prepare\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 response to motion [*15] for\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 sanctions based on alleged\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 spoliation of electronically\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 stored information.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 09/17/12\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Cox\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 7.90\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Continue to prepare\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Other parts of this\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 response to motion for\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 time entry are not\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 sanction based on alleged\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 work performed\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 spoliation of ESI evidence\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 on Spoliation\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 (4.1); call with F.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Motion.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Waszmer re IT factual\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 issues underlying same\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 (.3); . . . make additional\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 revisions to draft response\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 to motion for sanctions\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 based on spoliation based\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 on comments from F.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Waszmer and addition of\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 exhibits, and send to J.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Hoffman for review (3 5).\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 09/19/12\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Cox\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 1.30\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Confer with A. Sharp re\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Other parts of the\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 issues related to motion\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 time entry are not\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 for sanctions based on\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 work performed\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 spoliation of ESI (.4);\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 on Spoliation\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 prepare draft declaration\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Motion.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 for A. Sharp re same\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 (.4); . . . finish preparing\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 draft declaration for F.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Waszmer re ESI\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 preservation issues and\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 forward same for review\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 (.5) . . . .\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 09/20/12\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Cox\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 1.80\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 [S]end draft declarations\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Block billing entry\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 for A. Sharp and F.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 from which 0.2 is\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Waszmer, re motion for\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 allocated to work\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 spoliation sanctions, to J.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 on Spoliation\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Hoffman for review (.1);\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Motion; other\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 finalize A. Sharp\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 parts of this time\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 declaration (.2); compare\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 entry are not work\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 issues in A. Sharp\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 performed on\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 declaration with testimony\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Spoliation Motion.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 in K. Siptroth deposition\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 and statements in K.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Siptroth expert report\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 (1.3); emails with M.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 McKown re deadline for\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 responses to motion for\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 disqualification and\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 motion for spoliation\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 sanctions [0.20] . . . .\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 09/21/12\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Cox\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 3.30\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 [C]onfer further with F.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Other parts of this\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Waszmer re declaration\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 time entry are not\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 and finalize same for\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 work performed\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 purposes of response to\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 on Spoliation\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 motion for spoliation\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Motion.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 sanctions (.5); . . . revise\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 response to motion for\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 sanctions based on ESI\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 spoliation and circulate for\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 review (2.8) . . . .\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 09/23/12\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Cox\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 6.20\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Revise response to motion\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Other parts of this\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 for sanctions based on\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 time entry are not\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 spoliation, including\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 work performed\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 revisions based on\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 on Spoliation\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 comments from J.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Motion.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Hoffman and D.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 MacKenzie, and based on\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 confirming references to\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 exhibits and citations to\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 authority (6.2) . . . .\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 09/23/12\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 MacKenzie\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 1.30\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Draft and review with\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 edits proposed response to\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 motion re spoliation, send\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 via electronic mail for\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 review and consideration.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 09/23/12\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Hoffman\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 1.80\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Review and revise draft\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Memo in Opposition to\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Defendant's Spoliation\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Motion and send\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 comments to co-counsel.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 09/23/12\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Hoffman\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 0.20\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Review D. MacKenzie\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 edits to Memo in\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Opposition to Spoliation\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Motion.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 09/24/12\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Cox\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 4.4\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 [F]inish compiling\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Block billing entry\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 exhibits for response to\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 for which 4.4\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 motion for disqualification\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 hours is allocated\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 and for response to motion\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 to Spoliation\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 for sanctions based on\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Motion.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 spoliation . . . ; review,\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 revise and finalize each\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 response for purposes of\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 filing (4.4).\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 09/24/12\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Hoffman\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 0.30\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Review and make final\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 revisions to Response to\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Motion for Sanctions\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 (Spoliation).\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 09/24/12\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Hoffman\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 0.10\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Internal conference with\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 K. Cox regarding final\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 edits to Memo in\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Opposition to Motion for\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Sanctions (spoliation).\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 05/14/14\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Hoffman\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 0.30\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Review incoming Order\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Denying Dr. Hynes'\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Motion for Sanctions for\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Spoliation and exchange\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 e-mail correspondence[*16] \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 with co-counsel regarding\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Order.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
Doc. No. 218-3, at 150-76, 209.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 B. Disallowed and Reduced Time.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 DATE \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 PROFESSIONAL \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 HOURS \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 TASK PERFORMED \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 WORKED \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 08/31/12\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Cox\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 4.60\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Begin review and analysis of\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 multiple draft motions\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 provided by opposing counsel\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 in preparation for good faith\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 conference, and begin drafting\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 responses to certain arguments\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 in same.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 05/14/14\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 McKown\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 0.20\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Receive and review order\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 denying Dr. Hynes' Motion\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 for Spoliation and confer with\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 team.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 05/14/14\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 MacKenzie\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 0.50\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Review and analyze order\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 denying Dr. Hynes' motion for\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 spo[li]ation[; r]eceive, review\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 and respond to several\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 electronic letters and messages\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 from team re same, status and\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 strategy (.5).\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 05/14/14\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Cox\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 0.60\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Review and analyze order\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 denying motion for sanctions\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 based on spoliation, and\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 review and exchange internal\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 communications re\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 implications of same\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb108\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 DATE \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 REASON \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 EXCLUDED \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 08/31/12\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Before Spoliation\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Motion filed; vague\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 because no indication\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 which "draft\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 motions" were being\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 reviewed.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 05/14/14\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Duplicative and\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 excessive,\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 particularly in light of\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 time awarded for\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Attorney Hoffman's\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 review of the same\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 order.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 05/14/14\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Duplicative and\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 excessive,\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 particularly in light of\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 time awarded for\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Attorney Hoffman's\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 review of the same\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 order.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 05/14/14\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Duplicative and\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 excessive,\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 particularly in light of\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 time awarded for\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Attorney Hoffman's\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 review of the same\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 order\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Doc. No. 218-3, at 150, 208-09.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0  \uc0\u8232 \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 1\
The background of the state court litigation was explained as follows:\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\li539\ri539\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Dr. Hynes and Health First are also parties to four other lawsuits pending in state court in Brevard County, Florida. Dr. Hynes has moved to disqualify Holland & Knight as counsel in three of those four other state court lawsuits . . . . The grounds stated in the motions to disqualify in state court were substantially the same as those that form the basis for the Motion for Disqualification in this Court.\
During the period from September 19, 2012, through October 1, 2012, Judge Charles Holcomb conducted an evidentiary hearing on the motion to disqualify in [one of the state court lawsuits]. Testimony was taken from a total of 14 witnesses and 4,000 pages of exhibits were introduced over the course of 6-days of taking evidence.\
Doc. No. 125, at 2-3.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 2\
I granted a motion for reconsideration in part only to replace an order denying one of Health First's motions with a more detailed order following a hearing. Doc. No. 157.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 3\
The Eleventh Circuit transferred the motion for appellate attorney's fees filed by Health First to this Court for resolution. Doc. Nos. 223, 224. I will address that motion in a separate Report and Recommendation.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 4\
Because the Court has resolved the entitlement issue, I will not address Dr. Hynes's objections based on failure to determine during the bench trial the amount of attorneys' fees to be paid as an element of damages.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 5\
Mr. Mathias is a representative of Health First. Doc. No. 218-3, at 2.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 6\
A list of time entries allowed, disallowed, or reduced for this category is contained in the Appendix to this Report and Recommendation. I include an appendix only for this category of work because, due to the significant overlap of work on the Spoliation Motion, the renewed motion in limine and the motion to disqualify counsel and related work, an appendix appears to be necessary to show what time was worked on the Spoliation Motion.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 7\
Dr. Hynes filed earlier motions in limine, Doc. Nos. 101 and 102, which were stricken by the Court, Doc. No. 105. Because Health First refers in its description of this category of work specifically to the single renewed motion in limine (Doc. No. 120), I have not included work performed regarding the original motions in limine. Doc. No. 217, at 7.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 8\
This time does not include 0.4 hours Attorney MacKenzie recorded on October 2, 2012, for follow-up conversations after the hearing. Doc. No. 218-3, at 179.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 9\
This recommendation includes disallowance of fees for Health First's work requesting a Rule 16 conference to discuss resolution of the motion to disqualify and attending that conference. Doc. No. 218-3, at 199.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 10\
I have not included in this time work performed by Attorney Borucke on January 15, 2013, and March 5, 2013, reviewing status reports because it appears that he made no substantive contribution to the work.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 11\
Dr. Hynes contends that Health First waived its right to seek fees in this category because it did not request these fees in its initial fee motion. Doc. No. 219, at 12. Dr. Hynes did not cite to any legal authority supporting his waiver argument. I note that the Court expressly gave Health First leave to file a renewed motion after the Eleventh Circuit resolved the appeal rather than simply permitting Health First to refile the original motion. Doc. No. 201. For these reasons, Dr. Hynes' waiver argument is not well taken.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 12\
Attorney Hoffman attests that he reviewed attorney time records paid by Health First. Doc. No. 218, at 2.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 13\
The amount actually charged to Health First has been redacted from the time sheets filed with the Court. If Holland & Knight did discount its fees in the invoices submitted to Health First, it must advise the Court of the amount of the discount within the time to file objections to this Report and Recommendation.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 14\
For example, if the Court determines that a 40% reduction in the lodestar attorneys' fees award is reasonable, it would reduce the total fee award for work in this Court to $131,893.20 (lodestar fee of $219,822.00 x .60).\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 15\
A separate judgment is not required for resolution of a motion for attorneys' fees, including nontaxable costs. Fed. R. Civ. P. 58 . Health First may, however, request that the judgment in this case again be amended to include the attorneys' fees and nontaxable costs awarded by the Court.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb566\sa1133\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0          
\f0\fs42 General Information\

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 Judge(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Karla R. Spaulding\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Related Docket(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 6:11-cv-00715 (M.D. Fla.);\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Topic(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Damages & Remedies\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Date Filed\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 2016-06-27 00:00:00\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Parties\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 HEALTH FIRST, INC., Plaintiff, v. RICHARD HYNES, Defendant.\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Court\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 United States District Court for the Middle District of Florida\cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\li674\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\fs20 \cf0 Pagination \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 *
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 BL
\f1\fs24 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\li674\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 United States District Court, S.D. Florida \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 ENERGY SMART INDUSTRY, LLC, Plaintiff v. BIG R OF LAMAR, INC., Defendant. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Case No. 11-23627-CIV-O'SULLIVAN [CONSENT]. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 July 26, 2012. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
ORDER 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\
John J. O'Sullivan, Magistrate Judge 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\
THIS MATTER comes before the Court on the Defendant's Motion to Dismiss Plaintiff's Amended Complaint and Memorandum of Law in Support (DE# 31, 1/31/12). On November 14, 2011, the parties consented to magistrate judge jurisdiction for all further matters in this case including trial. See Joint Consent to Jurisdiction by a United States Magistrate Judge (DE# 18, 11/14/12). This matter was referred to the undersigned by the Honorable Joan A. Lenard for all further proceedings, including final disposition of this case. See Order of Full Referral to Magistrate Judge (DE# 19, 11/15/11). Having carefully considered the applicable filing and the law, it is 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 ORDERED AND ADJUDGED that the Defendant's Motion to Dismiss Plaintiff's Amended Complaint and Memorandum of Law in Support (DE# 31, 1/31/12) is DENIED for the reasons stated herein. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 BACKGROUND 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 On September 8, 2011, Energy Smart Industry, LLC (hereinafter "plaintiff" or "Energy Smart") filed an action in state court against the defendant, Big R of Lamar, Inc. (hereinafter "defendant" or "Big R"), for (1) breach of contract, (2) breach of covenant of good faith and fair dealing and (3) unjust enrichment. See Defendant's Notice of Removal (DE#1, 10/6/11). The action was subsequently removed by the defendant to this Court on October 16, 2011 based on diversity jurisdiction. Id.
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The plaintiff filed an amended complaint on November 1, 2011. See Amended Complaint (DE# 13, 11/1/11). The Amended Complaint (DE# 13, 11/1/11) alleges the following five causes of action against the defendant: (1) breach of contract, (2) breach of covenant of good faith and fair dealing, (3) unjust enrichment, (4) quantum meruit and (5) promissory estoppel. Id. On January 31, 2012, the defendant filed the instant motion to dismiss. See Defendant's Motion to Dismiss Plaintiff's Amended Complaint and Memorandum of Law in Support (DE# 31, 1/31/12). The plaintiff filed its response in opposition on March 8, 2012. See Plaintiff's Memorandum in Response to Defendant's Motion to Dismiss Amended Complaint (DE# 37, 3/8/12). The defendant filed its reply on March 19, 2012. See Defendant's Reply Memorandum in Support of Motion to Dismiss (DE# 39, 3/19/12). This matter is ripe for consideration. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 STANDARD OF REVIEW 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The defendant moves to dismiss the Amended Complaint (DE# 13, 11/1/11) pursuant to FED. R.CIV. P. 12(b)(2) and (b)(6). Rule 12(b)(2) allows a defendant to assert the defense of lack of personal jurisdiction. "A federal court sitting in diversity may properly exercise jurisdiction over a defendant only if two requirements are met: (1) the state long-arm statute and (2) the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment." Posner v. Essex Ins. Co., Ltd., 178 F.3d 1209, 1214 (11th Cir. 1999) (citing Sculptchair, Inc. v. Century Arts Ltd., 94 F.3d 623, 626 (11th Cir. 1996)). Both prongs must be satisfied for personal jurisdiction to exist. Madara v. Hall, 916 F.2d 1510, 1514 (11th Cir. 1990). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The plaintiff has the initial burden of alleging a prima facie case [*2] of personal jurisdiction over a nonresident defendant. See Cable/HomeCommunication Corp. v. Network Productions, 902 F.2d 829, 255 (11th Cir. 1990). The burden then shifts to the defendant to challenge the plaintiff's allegations and may contest jurisdiction through affidavits, documents or other evidence. See United Techs. Corp. v. Mazer, 556 F.3d 1260, 1274 (11th Cir. 2009). If the defendant meets its burden, the plaintiff must substantiate the jurisdictional allegations in its complaint by affidavits or other competent proof, and may not merely rely upon the factual allegations set forth in the complaint. Posner, 178 F.3d at 1215. Where the plaintiff's evidence and defendant's evidence conflict, all reasonable inferences must be construed in favor of the plaintiff. Stubbs v. WyndhamNassau Resort and Crystal Palace Casino, 447 F.3d 1357, 1360 (11th Cir. 2006). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The defendant also seeks dismissal of Count I (breach of contract) of the Amended Complaint (DE# 13, 11/1/11) pursuant to FED. R.CIV. P. 12(b)(6). In considering a motion to dismiss brought under Rule 12(b)(6), the Court's analysis is generally limited to the four corners of the complaint and the attached exhibits. See Grossman v. Nationsbank, 225 F.3d 1228, 1231 (11th Cir. 2000). The Court must also accept the non-moving party's well-pled facts as true and construe the complaint in the light most favorable to that party. Caravello v. Am.Airlines, Inc., 315 F.Supp.2d 1346, 1348 (S.D. Fla. 2004) (citing UnitedStates v. Pemco Aeroplex, Inc. 195 F.3d 1234, 1236 (11th Cir. 1999) (enbanc)). To survive a motion to dismiss, the complaint must contain factual allegations which are "enough to raise a right to relief above the speculative level." Bell Atlantic Corp. v. Twombly, 550 U.S. 544, 555(2007). "When there are well-pleaded factual allegations, a court should assume their veracity and then determine whether they plausibly give rise to an entitlement to relief." Ashcroft v. Iqbal, 556 U.S. 662, 679 (2009). The issue to be decided is not whether the claimant will ultimately prevail, but "whether the claimant is entitled to offer evidence to support the claims." Scheuer v. Rhodes, 416 U.S. 232, 236 (1974), overruled on other grounds by David v. Scheuer, 468 U.S. 183 (1984). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 FACTS [fn1]
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Big R operates a number of farm, ranch and home retail stores in Colorado, Texas and New Mexico. See Affidavit of Michael Carroll (DE# 5-1 at \'b6 5, 10/13/11). Energy Smart performs audits and analysis of energy costs associated with non-LED lighting for businesses. See Amended Complaint (DE# 13 at \'b6 10, 11/1/11). Upon conclusion of its analysis, Energy Smart installs the appropriate LED-lighting design to replace the current lighting design of a business. Id. In exchange, Energy Smart takes a portion of the energy savings realized by the business as a result of the installation of LED-lighting for an agreed upon term. Id.Almost all of Energy Smart's projects are in Florida. Id. at \'b6 11. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The initial business negotiations between the parties in the instant case "were done through Energy Smart's representatives outside of Florida...." Plaintiff's Memorandum in Response to Defendant's Motion to Dismiss Amended Complaint (DE# 37 at 10, 3/8/12). On April 25, 2011, the parties executed the LED Lighting Retrofit Agreement (hereinafter "Agreement"). See Amended Complaint (DE# 13-1 at 6, 11/1/11). The CEO of Energy [*3] Smart, David Houri, agreed to participate in the project if two criteria were met: (1) Big R would have to remit 100% of the savings to Energy Smart for the project and (2) Big R would have to agree to litigate any disputes arising out of the project in Florida. Id. at \'b6 13. Energy Smart was directed by Big R's operations manager, Bill Briggs, to quickly begin the project. Id. at \'b6\'b6 12, 14. Big R knew that implementing the project would result in the expenditure of extensive costs and resources for Energy Smart. Id. at \'b6 14 Energy Smart expended the funds in reliance on Big R's performance of its contractual obligations. Id. at \'b6 16. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The project fell apart when it came time to confirm the installation of lighting in the first store. See Deposition of Will Molasky (DE# 31-2 at 14, 1/31/12). On August 1, 2011, Energy Smart sent a letter to Big R, stating that Big R was in breach of the terms of the Agreement because it had not permitted Energy Smart full access to its sites in order for Energy Smart to finalize the project. See August 1, 2011 Letter, Exhibit B to Amended Complaint (DE#13-2 at 2, 11/1/11). Energy Smart alleges that it incurred substantial damages, including engineering and design costs, as well as the loss of the savings payments as a result of the breach. See Amended Complaint (DE#13 at \'b6 19, 11/1/11). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 ANALYSIS 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 I. Motion to Dismiss for Lack of Personal Jurisdiction underFED. R.CIV. P. 12(b)(2)
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 a. The Florida Long-arm Statute
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The Amended Complaint invokes subsections (a), (f) and (g) of the Florida longarm statute. Amended Complaint (DE# 13 at \'b6 3, 11/1/11). These subsections read as follows: 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 (1) Any person, whether or not a citizen or resident of this state, who personally or through an agent does any of the acts enumerated in this subsection thereby submits himself or herself and, if he or she is a natural person, his or her personal representative to the jurisdiction of the courts of this state for any cause of action arising from the doing of any of the following acts: 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 (a) Operating, conducting, engaging in, or carrying on a business or business venture in this state or having an office or agency in this state. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 (f) Causing injury to persons or property within this state arising out of an act or omission by the defendant outside this state, if, at or about the time of the injury, either: 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 1. The defendant was engaged in solicitation or service activities within this state; or 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 2. Products, materials, or things processed, serviced, or manufactured by the defendant anywhere were used or consumed within this state in the ordinary course of commerce, trade, or use. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 (g) Breaching a contract in this state by failing to perform acts required by the contract to be performed in this state. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Fla. Stat. \'a7 48.193(1)(a), (f)-(g). "The long-arm statute must be strictly construed; therefore, any doubts about the applicability of the statute must be resolved in favor of the defendant and against a conclusion that personal jurisdiction exists." Kreston v. FirstCollect, Inc., 523 F.Supp.2d 1348, 1353 n. 2 (S.D. Fla. 2007) (citing Gadea v. Star Cruises, Ltd., 949 So. 2d 1143, 1150 (Fla. 3d DCA 2007)). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The defendant argues that the Amended Complaint (DE# 13, 11/1/11) should be dismissed because the Court lacks personal jurisdiction [*4] over it under the Florida longarm statute, Fla. Stat. \'a7 48.193. See Defendant's Motion to Dismiss Plaintiff's Amended Complaint and Memorandum of Law in Support (DE# 31 at 1, 1/31/12). Specifically, the defendant argues that "Big R has not 'conducted business' in Florida under Section 48.193(1)(a), has not caused Energy Smart personal injury or property damage under Section 48.193(1)(f), and Energy Smart cannot plead any breach of contract claim against Big R sufficient to support personal jurisdiction under Section 48.193(1)(g)." Id.In its response to the instant motion, the plaintiff argues that the Court has personal jurisdiction over the defendant pursuant to \'a7 48.193(1)(a) and (g). See Plaintiff's Memorandum in Response to Defendant's Motion to Dismiss Amended Complaint (DE# 37 at 20, 3/8/12). The plaintiff does not raise any arguments with respect to subsection (f). Accordingly, the undersigned will not address personal jurisdiction under subsection (f) in this Order. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 i. Personal Jurisdiction under \'a7 48.193(1)(a) 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Section 48.193(1)(a) of the Florida long-arm statute permits the exercise of personal jurisdiction over a nonresident defendant who "engages in or carries on business in Florida." Am. Univ. of the Caribbean, N.V. v. CaritasHealthcare, Inc. , No. 10-12836, [2012 BL 157699], 2012 WL 2383021, at *3 (11th Cir. Jun. 26, 2012) (per curiam) (citing Fla. Stat. \'a7 48.193(1)(a)). "In order to qualify for jurisdiction under section 48.193(1)(a), a foreign defendant's business activities must, taken together, 'show a general course of business activity in the state for pecuniary benefits.'" Barrocos of Fla., Inc. v. Elmassain, No. 11-cv-22393, [2012 BL 139398], 2012 WL 1622988, at *3 (S.D. Fla. May 9, 2012) (quoting Horizon Aggressive Growth, L.P. v. Rothstein-Kass, P.A., 421 F.3d 1162, 1167(11th Cir. 2005)). Factors relevant to this determination include: "'the presence and operation of an office in Florida, the possession and maintenance of a license to do business in Florida, the number of Florida clients served, and the percentage of overall revenue gleaned from Florida clients.'" Id. (quoting Horizon Aggressive Growth, 421 F.3d at 1167)). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The plaintiff states that "at the behest of Big R, Energy Smart conferred upon Big R a benefit, such as the lighting design, which Big R voluntarily accepted," that "[i]n order to do so, Energy Smart's representatives in Florida worked in conjunction with Big R's representatives by phone, email and webinars" and that "although the raw data was compiled outside of Florida, information was sent by Big R to Florida, and all the detailed computations were done in Florida." Plaintiff's Memorandum in Response to Defendant's Motion to Dismiss Amended Complaint (DE# 37 at 12-13, 3/8/12). The plaintiff also mentions in its response that the defendant has a website that offers its entire product mix for immediate shipping to any business or individual in Florida, has sold products to clients in Florida and "advertises its website and products on the internet 'for anybody in the United States to purchase no matter their location' based on internet searches for 'specific words' ... [and] also purchases products from Florida, albeit a very small amount of its total purchases."  Id. at 8 (citations to the record omitted).[fn2]
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The defendant maintains [*5] that it does not conduct business in Florida under 48.193(1)(a) and has submitted the Declaration of Adam Carroll (DE# 31-1, 1/31/12) concerning the defendant's operation of a website and the extent of its sales and purchases in Florida. See Defendant's Motion to Dismiss Plaintiff's Amended Complaint and Memorandum of Law in Support (DE# 31, 1/31/12). Mr. Carroll is the general manager of Big R. See Declaration of Adam Carroll (DE# 31-1 at \'b6 2, 1/31/12). Mr. Carroll attests that prior to September 2011, Big R's website was used for informational purposes only and no customers could purchase products from its website.  Id. at \'b6 4. Beginning in September 2011, customers were able to purchase products through the website and for the year 2011, a total of six (6) orders came from Florida, amounting to $363.25 in sales. Id. Less than 0.000016 percent of Big R's sales came from these six orders and Big R made no other Florida sales. Id.Mr. Carroll further attests that less than 0.000145 percent of Big R's purchases were either placed to or delivered from Florida in 2011.  Id. at \'b6 5. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 In determining whether a non-resident defendant was carrying on a business or business venture in Florida, the focus is on the defendant's actions. SeeBernardele v. Bonorino, 608 F.Supp.2d 1313, 1321 (S.D. Fla. 2009) (stating that "[i]n order to establish that a defendant was carrying on a business or business venture in the state, either itself or through an agent, [t]heactivities of the [defendant] sought to be served ... must be considered collectively and show a general course of business activity in the State for pecuniary benefit.") (emphasis added; citation and quotation marks omitted; some alterations in original); Elandia Int'l Inc. v. Ah Koy, 690 F.Supp.2d 1317, 1334 (S.D. Fla. 2010) (stating that "[a] plaintiff must show that the defendant engaged in a general course of business activity in the state for pecuniary benefit to satisfy \'a7 48.193(1)(a)") (emphasis added). The plaintiff argues that the defendant was carrying on a business or business venture in Florida under subsection (1)(a) of the long-arm statute because: 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 (i)... the pre-contract negotiations were controlled by and in direct consultation with Mr. Houri in Florida through Energy Smart's representatives; (ii)... after the "due diligence" stage and Big R re-confirming that they wanted to move forward with the Project, Big R directly communicated and worked with Energy Smart's representatives in Florida, including Mr. Molasky;[fn3] (iii)... much of the work for the Project and all the design and analysis was to be performed in Florida by Mr. Houri and Mr. Molasky, and (iv)... Big R was required to make the Savings Payments to Energy Smart in Florida. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Plaintiff's Memorandum in Response to Defendant's Motion to Dismiss Amended Complaint (DE# 37 at 10, 3/8/12) (footnote added). With the exception of the last fact, which will be addressed below, the actions listed by the plaintiff were not the actions of the defendant but the actions the plaintiff undertook in the forum state on behalf of the defendant or in furtherance of the contract. In Clover Systems, Inc. v. Almagran, S.A., No. 05-22539-CIV, [2007 BL 200383], 2007 WL 1655377, at *4 (S.D. Fla. Jun. 7, 2007), for example, this Court found that 48.193(1)(a) had [*6] been met where the defendants took the following affirmative acts: 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 (1)... engaged in business activities with Plaintiff, a Florida corporation since December 1999; (2) made regular trips (two per year) into the forum to facilitate its business activities with Plaintiff; (3) transmitted thousands of electronic communications, including telephone calls, into Florida; (4) derived a substantial proportion (15%) of its total revenues from its relationship with Plaintiff in the forum; and (5) wired money on 101 occasions to Plaintiff's Florida-based bank to effectuate the reconciliation of accounts and distribution of profits. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The plaintiff also states that "Energy Smart's representatives in Florida worked in conjunction with Big R's representatives by phone, email and webinars." Plaintiff's Memorandum in Response to Defendant's Motion to Dismiss Amended Complaint (DE# 37 at 13, 3/8/12). In Mold-Ex, Inc. v.Michigan Technical Representatives, Inc., No. 04-CV-307-MCRMD, [2005 BL 82079], 2005 WL 2416824, at *3 (N.D. Fla. Sept. 30, 2005), the court found that the defendant was not carrying on a business in Florida even though the defendant "may have had 'continuous' telephonic and electronic communications with [the plaintiff] at its office in ... Florida." See alsoHorizon Aggressive Growth, 421 F.3d at 1167 (rejecting argument that defendant was doing business as defined by 48.193(1)(a) and stating that "[w]hile [the defendant] made telephonic and electronic communications from its California offices into Florida, these communications cannot constitute 'conducting business' in Florida."); Elandia Int'l Inc., 690 F.Supp.2d at 1334 (finding that "[t]he evidence that [the plaintiff] listed to show that [the d]efendants engaged in a general course of business in Florida [wa]s woefully insufficient" where the plaintiff alleged that "[the d]efendants derived a pecuniary benefit from a Florida-based company under the Arrangement Agreement; traveled to Florida, sent phone calls and e-mails into Florida, had contacts with Florida during the negotiation of the Stock Purchase Agreements; and agreed to litigate in Florida."). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Here, the defendant does not operate an office or any stores in Florida, does not hold real property in Florida, does not have any agents or employees in Florida and the number of sales in Florida and the number of purchases made by the defendant in or from Florida are de minimis. SeeAffidavit of Michael Carroll (DE# 5-1 at \'b6\'b6 5-6, 10/13/11); Declaration of Adam Carroll (DE# 31-1 at \'b6\'b6 4-5, 1/31/12). Although the Agreement contains a forum selection clause, Agreement (DE# 13-1 at 6, 11/1/11),[fn4] the Florida Supreme Court has held that "a forum selection clause, designating Florida as the forum, cannot operate as the sole basis for Florida to exercise personal jurisdiction over an objecting non-resident defendant." McRae v. J.D./M.D., Inc., 511 So. 2d 540, 542 (Fla. 1987). The undersigned has already determined that the other factors cited by the plaintiff are insufficient to support the conclusion that the defendant was engaged in business in Florida within the meaning of 48.193(1)(a).[fn5] For these reasons, the Court concludes that the defendant does not engage in or carries on business [*7] in Florida under \'a7 48.193 (1)(a). Accordingly, the plaintiff has not met its burden of showing personal jurisdiction under subsection (1)(a). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 ii. Personal Jurisdiction under \'a7 48.193(1)(g) 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The plaintiff also argues that the Court has personal jurisdiction over the defendant pursuant to subsection (1)(g) of the Florida long-arm statute. "Under Florida law, to find jurisdiction pursuant to \'a7 48.193(1)(g), a plaintiff must show that 'the defendant failed to perform an act or acts whose performance was to be in Florida and that such breach formed the basis for the cause of action for which relief is sought by the plaintiff.'" Thomas v. Brown, No. 11-62261-CIV, 2012 WL 987760, *7 (S.D. Fla. Mar. 22, 2012) (quoting Cosmopolitan Health Spa, Inc. v. Health Industries, Inc., 362 So. 2d 367, 368 (Fla. 4th DCA 1978)). "Failure to pay a contractual debt where payment is due to be made in Florida is sufficient to satisfy Florida's long-arm provision that refers to contractual acts 'required' to be performed in Florida." Global Satellite Communication Co. v. Sudline, 849 So. 2d 466, 468 (Fla. 4th DCA 2003) (citing Hartcourt Co., Inc. v.Hogue, 817 So. 2d 1067 (Fla. 5th DCA 2002)). Florida law states that "a debtor presumptively has to pay a creditor at the creditor's place of business, absent a contractual provision stating otherwise." Am. Univ. ofthe Caribbean, [2012 BL 157699], 2012 WL 2383021, at *3 (citing Vacation Ventures, Inc. v.Holiday Promotions, Inc., 687 So. 2d 286, 289 (Fla. 5th DCA 1997)) (footnote omitted). "This presumption, standing alone, can satisfy Florida's long-arm statute." Id. (citing Kane v. Am. Bank of Merritt Island, 449 So. 2d 974, 975 (Fla. 5th DCA 1984)). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Pursuant to the Agreement executed by the parties, the defendant agreed to pay the plaintiff "a fee for all services and installed property that are the subject of this Agreement, as specified hereinafter in Exhibit A and Exhibit B." See Agreement (DE# 13-1 at 2, 11/1/11). The agreement lists the plaintiff's principal place of business as Hollywood, Florida. Id. The agreement does not specify where payment would be made. Based on the presumption under Florida law that the defendant's payments under the Agreement would have been due in Florida, the Court concludes that subsection (1)(g) of the Florida long-arm statute is satisfied. The defendant argues that the Agreement is not a valid contract under the law. Defendant's Motion to Dismiss Plaintiff's Amended Complaint and Memorandum of Law in Support (DE# 31 at 17, 1/31/12). The Court is unpersuaded by this argument for the reasons discussed in Section II of this Order. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 b. Due Process
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 In addition to meeting the requirements of the state long-arm statute, a federal court sitting in diversity must ensure that jurisdiction satisfies the due process requirements of the Fourteenth Amendment. Posner, 178 F.3d at 1214. "Subjecting [the defendant] to jurisdiction in Florida comports with due process so long as minimum contacts exist between [the defendant] and Florida and exercising jurisdiction does not offend traditional notions of fair play and substantial justice."  Id. at 1220(citation and internal quotation marks omitted). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 i. Minimum Contacts
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The Eleventh Circuit has adopted the following three-part test in determining whether the minimum contacts requirement [*8] is met: (1) the contacts must be related to the plaintiff's cause of action, (2) the contacts must involve some act by which the defendant purposefully avails itself of the privilege of conducting activities within the forum state and (3) the defendant's contacts must be such that the defendant should reasonably anticipate being haled into court there. Posner, 178 F.3d at 1220. Some of the factors considered by the Court in determining whether the exercise of personal jurisdiction over the defendant would offend notions of fair play and substantial justice include: "the burden on [the defendant] of defending the suit in Florida; Florida's interest in adjudicating the suit; [the plaintiff's] interest in obtaining effective relief; the interests of the interstate judicial system in using resources efficiently; and the interests of the states in furthering shared substantive policies."  Id. at 1221 (citing Madara v. Hall, 916 F.2d 1510, 1517 (11th Cir. 1990)). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 "[W]hen inspecting a contractual relation for minimum contacts [the Eleventh Circuit] follow[s] a 'highly realistic approach' that focuses on the substance of the transaction: prior negotiations, contemplated future consequences, the terms of the contract and the actual course of dealing." Diamond Crystal Brands, Inc. v. Food Movers Intern, Inc., 593 F.3d 1249, 1268 (11th Cir. 2010) (citing Burger King Corp. v. Rudzewicz, 471 U.S. 462, 479 (1985)). The focus is on the nonresident defendant's conduct and "whether th[at] defendant deliberately engaged in significant activities within a state or created continuing obligations with residence of the forum." Id.
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Here, the Agreement contains a notice requirement which states: 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 NOTICE: Any notice pursuant to this Agreement shall be given in writing by (a) expedited delivery service (either Federal Express, UPS, or Airborne), or (b) United States Mail, 1st class postage prepaid, registered mail, or certified mail, return receipt requested, sent to the intended addressee at the address set forth in this Agreement and shall be deemed to have been given as of the date of the first attempted delivery at the address and in the manner provided herein or by signed acknowledgment of receipt by the other party. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Agreement (DE# 13-1 at 6, 11/1/11). The plaintiff's address as listed in the agreement is in Florida.  Id. at 2. There are several provisions in the Agreement that would require the defendant to provide notice to the plaintiff and, pursuant to the aforementioned notice provision, that notice would take place in Florida. For example, the agreement provides that: "All products, wiring, transformers, and all other equipment and products installed by ESI shall be repaired within a reasonable time of the service need being reported to ESI by Client."  Id. at 2. The Agreement also provides that the plaintiff has 30 days to cure any default after written notice from the defendant.  Id. at 5. Under the notice requirement, the defendant would have to mail that written notice to Florida. Additionally, the undersigned has already determined that the defendant would have had to submit payments to the plaintiff in Florida. Thus, the Agreement between [*9] the parties contemplated that the defendant would have ongoing contacts with the plaintiff in Florida. See DiamondCrystal Brands, Inc., 593 F.3d at 1269 (noting that "[t]he terms of the contracts and the course of performance reveal that the transactions involved contact with [the forum state]."). "When evaluating the 'purposeful availment' requirement, a court must 'ensure [] that a defendant will not be haled into a jurisdiction solely as a result of 'random,' 'fortuitous,' or 'attenuated' contacts....'" United Subcontractors, Inc. v. Godwin, No. 11-81329-CIV, 2012 WL 1587943, at *4 (S.D. Fla. May 4, 2012) (citing BurgerKing Corp. v. Rudzewicz, 471 U.S. 462, 475 (1985). Here, the Agreement between the parties contained a forum selection clause which provides that disputes be litigated in Miami-Dade County, Florida. Agreement (DE# 13-1 at 5, 11/1/11). In light of the notice requirements and the forum selection clause, it was reasonably foreseeable to the defendant that it would be haled into Court in Florida. "'[T]he foreseeability that is critical to due process analysis ... is that the defendant's conduct and connection with the forum State are such that he should reasonably anticipate being haled into court there." Burger King, 471 U.S. at 475 (quoting World-Wide VolkswagenCorp. v. Woodson, 444 U.S. 286, 297 (1980)). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 ii. Fair Play and Substantial Justice
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 "Once it has been determined that the nonresident defendant has purposefully established minimum contacts with the forum such that he should reasonably anticipate being haled into court there, these contacts are considered in light of other factors to decide whether the assertion of personal jurisdiction would comport with 'fair play and substantial justice.'" Madara, 916 F.2d at 1517(quoting Burger King Corp. v. Rudzewicz, 471 U.S. 462, 476 (1985). Factors to be considered by the Court in analyzing fair play and substance justice "are the burden on the defendant in defending the lawsuit, the forum state's interest in adjudicating the dispute, the plaintiff's interest in obtaining convenient and effective relief, the interstate judicial system's interest in obtaining the most efficient resolution of controversies and the shared interest of the states in furthering fundamental substantive social policies." Id. (citing Burger King, 471 U.S. at 477). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 In the instant case, the defendant has not specifically articulated its burden in litigating the instant action in Florida. The plaintiff is a Florida corporation and Florida has an interest in protecting the contracts of its corporations through adjudication of suits arising thereof. SeeE-One, Inc. v. R. Cushman & Associates, Inc., No. 5:05-cv-209-Oc-10GRJ, 2006 WL 2599130, at *12 (M.D. Fla. May 15, 2006) (stating that "[t]he State of Florida has a strong interest in protecting the interests of its corporate citizens."). The plaintiff has alleged that it "is a relatively small company and does not have the financial means to seamlessly litigate cases throughout the country." Amended Complaint (DE# 13 at \'b6 6, 11/1/11). Adjudicating this dispute against all parties in Florida will provide the plaintiff with convenient and effective relief and will serve judicial efficiency on an interstate level. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 In sum, [*10] the undersigned concludes that the defendant's contacts with Florida were sufficient to warrant the exercise of personal jurisdiction over it in this forum. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 II. Motion to Dismiss Based on Failure to State a Claim for Breach ofContract under FED. R.CIV. P. 12(b)(6)
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The defendant also moves to dismiss Count I (breach of contract) of the Amended Complaint (DE# 13, 11/1/11) for failure to state a claim upon which relief may be granted. See Defendant's Motion to Dismiss Plaintiff's Amended Complaint and Memorandum of Law in Support (DE# 31 at 17, 1/31/12). The elements of a breach of contract claim under Florida are: "(1) a valid contract; (2) a material breach; and (3) damages." Beck v. Lazard Freres& Co., LLC, 175 F.3d 913, 914 (11th Cir. 1999) (citing Abruzzo v. Haller, 603 So. 2d 1338, 1340 (Fla. 1st DCA 1992)). The defendant argues that the Amended Complaint fails to state a cause of action for breach of contract because: "[f]irst, a close reading of the ... Agreement demonstrates it is illusory and cannot support any breach of contract claim" and "[s]econd ... [the] Agreement imposes no enforceable contractual obligation on Big R of Lamar to make any savings payment in any specific amount or amounts, but merely sets out a formula by which some future agreement to do so might be reached." Defendant's Motion to Dismiss Plaintiff's Amended Complaint and Memorandum of Law in Support (DE# 31 at 17, 1/31/12). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 a. The Agreement Is Not Illusory
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 "A contract is illusory under Florida law when 'one of the promises appears on its face to be so insubstantial as to impose no obligation at all on the promisor \'97 who says, in effect, 'I will if I want to.'" PrincetonHomes, Inc. v. Virone, 612 F.3d 1324, 1331 (11th Cir. 2010) (quoting JohnsonEnters. of Jacksonville, Inc. v. FPL Group, Inc., 162 F.3d 1290, 1311 (11th Cir. 1998)). "An illusory promise does not constitute consideration for the other promise, and thus the contract is unenforceable against either party." Johnson Enters. of Jacksonville, 162 F.3d at 1311. The defendant argues that the Agreement "imposed no actual obligation on Energy Smart" because it gave "Energy Smart the 'right to terminate [the Retrofit Agreement] after initial inspection of the Project and conducting its proper due diligence,' in which event neither party had remaining obligations." Defendant's Motion to Dismiss Plaintiff's Amended Complaint and Memorandum of Law in Support (DE# 31 at 18, 1/31/12) (citing Agreement (DE# 13-1 at 4, 11/1/11)). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The Agreement states, in pertinent part, as follows: 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 TERMINATION BY ESI: Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, ESI shall have the right to terminate this Agreement after initial inspection of the Project and conducting its proper due diligence, in which event neither ESI nor Client shall have any obligations under this Agreement, and thereupon this Agreement shall thereafter be deemed null and void. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Agreement (DE# 13-1 at 4, 11/1/11). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 "Even if there is no mutuality of termination, Florida courts have upheld the unilateral right of one party to cancel a contract as long as consideration exists." Avatar Dev. Corp. v. De Pani Const., Inc., 834 So. 2d 873, 875 (Fla. 4th DCA 2002) (citing Rollins Servs. v. Metro.Dade County, 281 So. 2d 520 (Fla 3d DCA 1973); Murry v. Zynyx Mktg.Commc'ns, Inc., 774 So. 2d 715 (Fla. 3d DCA 2000)). In Avatar [*11] Dev. Corp., 834 So. 2d at 874, the contract between the parties contained the following termination clause: "67.1 The Company [Avatar] may terminate this Agreement at any time for any reason by giving at least ten (10) days prior written notice." The trial court determined that "the unilateral, termination provision contained in Article 67 was illusory and unfair because it lacked in mutuality of obligation."  Id. at 875. On appeal, the Fourth District reversed the trial court's finding concluding that: "Article 67 [wa]s a valid and enforceable unilateral termination clause as it required Avatar to provide 'at least ten (10) days prior written notice,' which constituted sufficient consideration." Id. (citing Sugar Cane Growers Coop. of Fla., Inc. v. Pinnock, 735 So. 2d 530 (Fla. 4th DCA 1999). The appellate court noted that other provisions of the contract allowed the opposing party to terminate the court thereby creating "mutuality of termination." Id. Ultimately, the appellate court concluded that even if there was no mutuality of termination, the termination clause in article 67 was valid because it had consideration. Id. Courts have found unilateral termination clauses valid where the termination clause contains a notice requirement. See Murry, 774 So. 2d at 715 (stating that "[t]he contract require[d] [the plaintiff] to provide [the defendant] with sixty days written notice of his intent to terminate the contract. This condition was sufficient to satisfy mutuality requirement for the contract); SugarCane Growers Coop. of Fla. Inc., 735 So. 2d at 530 (ten-day notice requirement before termination of contract was sufficient to overcome claim of lack of mutuality); Bossert v. Palm Beach County Comprehensive CommunityMental Health Ctr., Inc., 404 So. 2d 1138 (Fla. 4th DCA 1981) (two-week notice requirement sufficient to avoid lack of mutuality claim). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Here, the unilateral termination clause in the Agreement is different from the cases cited above because it does not contain a notice requirement. Nonetheless, even if the unilateral termination clause in the contract lacks consideration, other portions of the contract are supported by consideration. See Agreement (DE# 13-1 at 2, 11/1/11) (stating that "[i]n consideration for the performance of the WORK, Client shall pay ESI an amount equal to 100% (one hundred percent) from the agreed savings to Client resulting from the Work as later calculated by ESI pursuant to said Exhibit A and Exhibit B...."). Here, the plaintiff is not seeking to enforce the unilateral termination clause and the Agreement contains a severability clause which provides that: 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 "SEVERABILITY: The invalidity of any one of the terms, conditions, or provisions of the Contract Documents, or any portion thereof, shall not affect the remaining portions thereof, and the Contract Documents shall be construed and enforced as if such invalid term, condition, or provision had not been included." Agreement (DE# 13-1 at 5, 11/1/11). Valid severability clauses are enforceable under Florida law. "As a general rule, contractual provisions are severable, where the illegal portion of the contract does not go to its essence, and, with the illegal [*12] portion eliminated, there remain valid legal obligations." Fonte v. AT&T Wireless Services, Inc., 903 So. 2d 1019, 1024 (Fla. 4th DCA 2005); see also VoiceStream WirelessCorp. v. U.S. Communications, Inc., 912 So. 2d 34, 38-39 (Fla. 4th DCA 2005) (remaining agreement was valid because unenforceable portions of the agreement were contractually severable). Thus, assuming, arguendo, that the unilateral termination clause is unenforceable for lack of consideration, the plaintiff could still be able to enforce the remaining portions of the contract pursuant to the severability clause. Accordingly, the Court finds that the Agreement is not invalid for lack of consideration. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 b. The Agreement Imposes a Contractual Obligation on the Defendant to MakePayments
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The defendant further argues that the plaintiff's breach of contract claim fails because the "Agreement ... placed no parameters or boundaries \'97 or any definiteness whatsoever \'97 on the price Energy Smart could charge Big R as 'savings payments'" and therefore the Agreement "includes no defined obligation to make any payment." Defendant's Motion to Dismiss Plaintiff's Amended Complaint and Memorandum of Law in Support (DE# 31 at 18, 1/31/12). The undersigned disagrees with the defendant's interpretation of the Agreement. The Agreement established a method of computing the contract price as follows: 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 CONTRACT PRICE: Client agrees to pay ESI, a fee for all services and installed property that are the subject of this Agreement, as specified hereafter in Exhibit A and Exhibit B. In consideration for the performance of the WORK, Client shall pay ESI an amount equal to 100% (one hundred percent) from the agreed savings to Client resulting from the Work as later calculated by ESI pursuant to said Exhibit A and Exhibit B, whatever they may be, each such payment to ESI being payable on the first (1st) day of each month during the seven (5) year term of this Agreement following the completion of the Work (hereinafter each such payment called a "Savings Payment"), subject to Paragraph 14 hereof as to the rights of ESI. Should Client choose to terminate this Agreement prior to expiration of its term, Client shall be responsible for paying the balance payable to ESI in the amount of the total monies due for the duration of this Agreement as hereinafter specified in Exhibit A and Exhibit B. If the termination by the Client occurs before the retrofit is finalized or before it started, the amount payable to ESI at ESI's option shall be the cost of the Work, including labor and materials plus ten (10%) percent profit and overhead. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Agreement (DE# 13-1 at 2, 11/1/11). The actual dollar amounts in Exhibits A and B of the Agreement were intentionally left blank by the parties because the plaintiff needed to conduct its inspection of the defendant's property prior to making its calculations. See Exhibit A (DE# 13-1 at 8, 11/1/11); Exhibit B (DE# 13-1 at 9, 11/1/11). However, the method of calculating the Savings Payments is plainly set forth in these exhibits. Id. This manner of ascertaining the contract price was agreed to by the defendant: 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 (b) Client [the defendant] further acknowledges [*13] the computations in Exhibit A and in Exhibit B cannot be completed until after the Work is completed; provided that notwithstanding that this Agreement is effective upon execution, provided further that Client and ESI agree that Exhibit A and Exhibit B, which calculate monthly savings realized and the Savings Payments to ESI, will be executed subsequent to the post retrofit meter reading and computations. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Agreement (DE# 13-1 at 3, 11/1/11). Additionally, the Agreement provided that: "Any change involving either an increase or decrease in the Savings Payment or the Contract Time may be accomplished only by a written agreement executed by both parties." Id. Therefore, the undersigned cannot agree with the defendant that the Agreement "placed no parameters or boundaries \'97 or any definiteness whatsoever \'97 on the price Energy Smart could charge Big R as 'savings payments'" and therefore the Agreement "includes no defined obligation to make any payment." Defendant's Motion to Dismiss Plaintiff's Amended Complaint and Memorandum of Law in Support (DE# 31 at 18, 1/31/12). The defendant also maintains that the Agreement is defective because the effective date in the agreement was left blank and 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [w]ithout an Effective Date, there is no time frame for Energy Smart to commence and complete the retrofit, rendering the dates the meter readings will be taken uncertain, and the methodology of the Savings Payments subject to, among many other things: (a) the cost of energy being charged by utility companies at the time the meter readings are taken; (b) Energy Smart's discretion to amend the calculation of Savings Payments. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Defendant's Reply Memorandum in Support of Motion to Dismiss (DE# 39 at 10 n. 18, 3/19/12). The fact that the effective date of the contract was left blank is not grounds for invalidating the Agreement. In Marine Turbo Eng'g,Ltd. v. Turbocharger Servs. Worldwide, No. 11-60621-CIV, [2011 BL 326659], 2011 WL 6756916, at *3-4 (S.D. Fla. Dec. 22, 2011), this Court rejected the argument that a contract was unenforceable because it was missing certain terms including a restriction period on a noncompete agreement. The Court agreed that "it [wa]s unclear from the face of the contract if the 'Restricted Period' was six months, one year, or eighteen months. It [wa]s, however, sufficiently alleged that there was a restriction on competing or working for a competitor for some length of time and that [the employee] breached this provision."  Id. at 3. The Court concluded that "[a]ny ambiguity as to the time limit [wa]s an issue the Court [could] resolve" and that "[i]t d[id] not mean [the p]laintiffs ha[d] failed to state a claim."  Id. at 4 (citing Corp. Mgmt Advisors, Inc. v. Boghos, 756 So. 2d 246, 247 (Fla. 5th DCA 2000)). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The Amended Complaint alleges the existence of (1) a valid contract, See supra , (2) a material breach in the defendant's refusal to "permit Energy Smart full and uninhibited access to the Properties to finalize the Project and Big R's unequivocal position that they would never make any of the Savings Payments"[fn6] and (3) damages in the form of missed "'Savings Payments' for all the Properties \'97 amounting to hundreds of thousands if not [*14] millions of dollars \'97 equipment related costs, engineering and design costs, survey and analysis costs, and costs associated with sales management and commissions." Amended Complaint (DE# 13 at \'b6\'b6 25-26, 11/1/11). Based on the foregoing, the undersigned concludes that the plaintiff has alleged a cause of action for breach of contract in the Amended Complaint (DE# 13, 11/1/11). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 CONCLUSION 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The Court finds that the allegations of the Amended Complaint (DE# 13, 11/1/11), together with the submissions of the parties, satisfy both Florida's long-arm statute, section 48.193(1)(g), and due process constitutional minimum contacts and traditional notions of fair play and substantial justice. Accordingly, the defendant's Motion to Dismiss Plaintiffs Amended Complaint and Memorandum of Law in Support (DE# 31, 1/31/12) is DENIED. The defendant shall file an answer to the Amended Complaint (DE #13, 11/1/12) in accordance with the applicable rules. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 DONE AND ORDERED. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn1] On a Rule 12(b)(2) motion, "[a]llegations in the complaint are accepted as true, to the extent they are uncontroverted by defendant's non-conclusory affidavits or deposition testimony." In re Trasylol ProductsLiability Litigation \'97 MDL \'97 1928, No. 08-cv-81212, 2011 WL 5529934, at *2 (S.D. Fla. Jul. 21, 2011) (citing Morris v. SSE Inc., 843 F.2d 489, 492(11th Cir. 1988)). "Where the evidence presented by the parties' affidavits and deposition testimony conflicts, all reasonable inferences are drawn in favor of the non-movant plaintiff." Id.
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn2] It is unclear whether the facts supporting the plaintiff's argument that the defendant engages in or carries on a business in Florida includes the facts concerning the defendant's website. Nonetheless, the undersigned will consider the facts relating to the defendant's website in determining whether personal jurisdiction under subsection (1)(a) is met. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn3] Will Molasky is the vice present of Energy Smart. See Plaintiff's Memorandum in Response to Defendant's Motion to Dismiss Amended Complaint (DE# 37 at 2 n. 2, 3/8/12). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn4] The Agreement states: "Venue and jurisdiction for any interpretations or enforcement of this Agreement shall be in Courts of the State of Florida located in Miami-Dade County, Florida. This Agreement shall be construed and enforced in accordance with Florida law." Agreement (DE# 13-1 at 6, 11/1/11). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn5] The parties dispute whether the plaintiff agreed to forego the damages it claimed it incurred in Florida as a basis for personal jurisdiction. SeeDefendant's Motion to Dismiss Plaintiff's Amended Complaint and Memorandum of Law in Support (DE# 31 at 14-15, 1/31/12) (stating that "to avoid producing documents to substantiate its claims for damages in Florida as part of the phase of discovery regarding personal jurisdiction, Energy Smart has stipulated that the alleged damages which it claims to have incurred in Florida are not a basis for the exercise of personal jurisdiction over Big R of Lamar in Florida.") (emphasis omitted); Plaintiff's Memorandum in Response to Defendant's Motion to Dismiss Amended Complaint (DE# 37 at 11, 3/8/12) (stating that "the emails explaining Energy Smart's position ... [are] taken out of context" and that "Energy Smart never stipulated to this preclusion"). Although counsel's emails could have been more carefully worded, the Court has reviewed the correspondence between the parties and agrees with the plaintiff that its intent was that it would not be relying on damages incurred in Florida to support personal jurisdiction under subsection (1)(f) of the long-arm statute and did not intend to waive its damages argument for other subsections of the long-arm statute. See Email (DE# 39-1 at 27, 3/19/12) (although plaintiff's counsel states "we will not be relying on any economic damages incurred as a result of your client soliciting ours in Florida for purposes of establishing personal jurisdiction," the language of the case law quoted in the email references 48.193(1)(f)). Ultimately, the issue is not material to the disposition of the instant motion since the Court finds that it has personal jurisdiction under subsection (1)(g) of the Florida longarm statute, which does not concern damages. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn6] The defendant points out that Energy Smart's CEO "could not identify any lighting design or energy analysis that Energy Smart was unable to finalize as a result of any conduct by Big R." Defendant's Reply Memorandum in Support of Motion to Dismiss (DE# 39 at 7, 3/19/12). Even if that is the case, the defendant's undisputed refusal to move forward with the project satisfies the material breach element of a breach of contract claim. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb566\sa1133\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0          
\f0\fs42 General Information\

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 Judge(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 John J. O\'92Sullivan\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Related Docket(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 1:11-cv-23627 (S.D. Fla.);\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Topic(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Contracts; Civil Procedure; Corporate Law\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Industries\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Retail Business & Services\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Date Filed\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 2012-07-26 00:00:00\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Parties\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 ENERGY SMART INDUSTRY, LLC, Plaintiff v. BIG R OF LAMAR, INC., Defendant.\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Case Type\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 SO\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Court\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 United States District Court for the Southern District of Florida\cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\li674\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\fs20 \cf0 Pagination \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 *
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 F.R.D. 
\f1\fs24 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 **
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 BL
\f1\fs24 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\li674\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 United States District Court, N.D. Florida. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATION, as Receiver for Peoples First Community Bank, Plaintiff, v. Greg M. BRUDNICKI, Joseph F. Chapman, III, Henry Clayton Futrell, Philip W. Griffitts, John Robert Middlemas, Jr., Rodney C. Morris, Raymond E. Powell, and John Stephen Wilson, II, Defendants. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 No. 5:12-cv-00398-RS-GRJ. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 June 14, 2013. [*671] \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
[EDITORS' NOTE: THIS PAGE CONTAINED HEADNOTES AND HEADNOTES ARE NOT AN OFFICIAL PRODUCT OF THE COURT, THEREFORE THEY ARE NOT DISPLAYED.] 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\
Joseph George Galardi, Andrew Steven Kwan, Beasley Hauser Kramer & Galardi, P.A., West Palm Beach, FL, for Plaintiff. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Charles Wachter, Fowler White Boggs etc., Tampa, FL, for Defendants. Article 35: Untitled 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 ORDER 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 GARY R. JONES, United States Magistrate Judge. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\
Pending before the Court are Plaintiff's Motion For Entry of Protective Order Relating to Confidentiality And Non-Disclosure (Doc. 13) and Defendants' Motion to Compel Production of Documents, Strike Or Overrule Objections, And For Sanctions. (Doc. 15.) On June 11, 2013 the Court conducted a telephonic hearing to address the motions. For the reasons discussed on the record, and as summarized below, Plaintiff's Motion for Entry of Protective Order Relating to Confidentiality and Non-Disclosure is due to be granted as detailed in this order, and as set forth in the modified confidentiality and non-disclosure order separately entered by the Court, and Defendant's Motion to Compel Production of Documents, Strike or Overrule Objections And For Sanctions is due to be granted in part and denied in part. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 INTRODUCTION 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 This action is brought by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as receiver (FDIC-R") for Peoples First Community Bank, against eight of People's former directors, one of whom was an officer, for negligence and gross negligence relating to the approval of eleven transactions. Procedurally, the FDIC-R has filed a first amended [*672]complaint after the Court granted in part and denied in part Defendant's motion to dismiss and ordered the FDIC-R to file an amended complaint. (Doc. 10.) The Defendants have not yet filed a response to the First Amended Complaint. Pursuant to the Court's Scheduling and Mediation Order (Doc. 9) the discovery deadline is October 31, 2013. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The two motions addressed in this order concern the production of documentary information by the FDIC-R. The motion for protective order requests the Court to enter an appropriate confidentiality order to facilitate production of the documents in this case, the majority of which are maintained in electronic format. The motion to compel concerns the form and procedures for production of the information and challenges the protocol for production of the electronically stored information ("ESI") proposed by the FDIC-R. The motions were addressed by the Court at the same time because resolution of the motion for protective order is a prerequisite to production of ESI by the FDIC-R. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 DISCUSSION 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 I. Plaintiff's Motion for Entry of Protective Order 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The lion's share of documentary information in this [**2] case has been converted to ESI.[fn1] Defendants have served 94 document requests requesting a wealth of information. According to the FDIC-R, responsive documents will be voluminous[fn2] and include information relating to the identity of bank customers, borrowers, guarantors, and their personal financial and other private information. Additionally, the materials to be produced will include regulatory materials prepared by the Office of Thrift Supervision ("OTS"). As a consequence, the FDIC-R requests the Court to enter a confidentiality and non-disclosure order to safeguard the personal, financial and regulatory information. The FDIC-R urges the Court to enter an appropriate confidentiality and non-disclosure order to expedite the flow of discovery material because the confidentiality of the personal and financial information of bank customers will be preserved without the FDIC-R having to engage in a costly \'97 and time consuming process \'97 of reviewing each document line-by-line to identify sensitive customer information to be redacted. As to the regulatory materials, the FDIC-R represents that their proposed confidentiality order includes terms that satisfy state and federal regulators, which will facilitate the expeditious disclosure of the requested regulatory information. 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 The FDIC-R has provided the Court with a proposed confidentiality and non-disclosure order, substantially similar to orders that have been used in other cases involving the FDIC-R and failed financial institutions. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 While Defendants do not seriously challenge the need for some form of a confidentiality order, the Defendants challenge the confidentiality order proposed by the FDIC-R arguing that there is no need for a blanket confidentiality order because the sensitive customer information the FDIC-R seeks to protect relates to loans dating back six to eight years and the bank has not operated since 2009. Further because ten of the eleven loans in question in this case have been the subject of public foreclosure actions, Defendants suggest there are no longer confidentiality concerns about the loans, borrowers, collateral or real estate projects involved in those actions. [*673] 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Defendants also raise concerns that their ability to interview witnesses and gather information will be hampered because the proposed confidentiality order would require them to have a potential witness sign an agreement to maintain confidentiality. Moreover, Defendants raise concerns that the confidentiality order would impose liability if Defendants discussed information which already is widely available in the public domain. Defendants also understandably complain that the proposed confidentiality order may require their counsel to disclose to the FDIC-R the names of witnesses consulted during their investigation, which would invade the work product privilege by disclosing the strategies of counsel by virtue of identifying the individuals Defendants' counsel contacted. 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 As to the regulatory information, [**3] Defendants assert that disclosure of information relating to the examination and regulation of the bank is no longer a concern because the bank has not operated since December 2009 so there is no risk that disclosure would affect the operation of the Bank, its depositors or other individuals previously involved with the Bank. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Lastly, Defendants complain that the entry of the FDIC-R's proposed confidentiality order would result in the wholesale sealing of documents, thus burdening the Court and running afoul of the principle that court orders authorizing the filing of documents under seal should be narrowly tailored and should be the exception. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Defendants have proposed their own confidentiality order, which Defendants assert is much simpler and adequately addresses issues of confidentiality. One of the sections in Defendants' proposed confidentiality order entitled "Objections to Designation" would authorize a party to lodge an objection at any time to the confidential designation of a document. If the parties do not resolve the objection by agreement the party designating the material as confidential would be required to file a motion with the Court and obtain a ruling on the confidential nature of the document. If the designating party fails to do so within 30 days the confidential designation lapses and the document can then be publicly disclosed. For good reason, the FDIC-R urges the Court not to include this type of provision because it would unnecessarily complicate the process of document production, invite abuse and more likely than not would result in protracted motion practice. 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 The Court has considered the views of the parties and concludes that the entry of a protective order is necessary and appropriate in this case in order to facilitate the expeditious production of documents and to avoid unnecessary expense and time, which the FDIC-R would incur if it was required to review each document line-by-line to identify and redact sensitive information. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The discovery in this case is asymmetrical. The FDIC-R will be the party producing the vast majority of documents. The relevant documents in this case are not in the possession of Defendants \'97 who have not been involved with People's Bank since at the latest December 2009 when the Bank was taken over by federal regulators \'97 but rather will be contained in the Bank's files concerning the underwriting, investigation and approval of the loans in the eleven transactions Thus, the burden and expense of document production will fall upon the FDIC-R. Moreover, the concerns about a blanket confidentiality order raised by Defendants can be addressed adequately through appropriate modifications to the confidentiality and non-disclosure order the Court is entering separately in this case. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 For example, the Court agrees that the Defendants should not be required to disclose to the FDIC-R upon request \'97 as currently included in section 7of the FDICR's proposed confidentiality order \'97 the identities of any third parties Defendants [**4] chooses to consult with and share the documents. While Defendants will be required to have any third parties execute a modified agreement to maintain confidentiality counsel only will be required to maintain the agreements [*674]for later use if necessary and will not be required to provide copies to the FDIC-R upon request. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Further, the entry of the modified confidentiality order by the Court will not, as Defendants suggest, result in wholesale sealing of documents in this case nor does the order constitute a blanket finding by the Court of privilege or confidentiality. Rather, that determination, if necessary, will be reserved for the Court to address in the event a motion to seal is filed. The modified order entered by the Court addresses the procedures for filing documents under seal consistent with Eleventh Circuit precedent[fn3] and consistent with the principle that wholesale sealing of documents is disfavored by the Courts. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Accordingly, for these reasons, Plaintiff's Motion For Entry of Protective Order Relating to Confidentiality and Non-Disclosure (Doc. 13) is granted to the extent specified in the Confidentiality and Non-Disclosure Order entered separately by the Court this date. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 II. Defendants' Motion To Compel 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 A. The ESI Protocol 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Defendants request the Court to enter an order requiring the FDIC-R to produce documents responsive to Defendants' First Request for Production, served on April 4, 2013. Defendants also request the Court to award sanctions against the FDIC-R for delaying discovery. 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Defendants' requests for production include 94 separate requests. While the requests are far-reaching in their scope, in general, Defendants seek production of documents relating to the eleven loan transactions at issue and to the allegations in the Complaint. Although Defendants complain that the FDIC-R has not produced any documents at this point the reason no documents have been produced is because a confidentiality and non-disclosure order had not been entered and the parties did not reach agreement on the ESI protocol to be utilized for the production of the documents. Thus, resolution of the ESI protocol is critical to the production of documents. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The parties sharply disagree on the method of production and the ESI protocol. Putting aside the form boilerplate objections inserted in every response by the FDIC-R,[fn4] the FDIC-R has agreed to produce responsive documents under a proposed protocol. Pursuant to the FDIC-R's proposed protocol (the "ESI Protocol"), the FDIC-R has agreed to produce the documents in a two phase process. The first phase consists of approximately 61,000 pages of documents and includes the following categories of highly relevant documents: (1) credit, underwriting, appraisal and other loan-related files maintained by Peoples Bank; (2) Bank loan and appraisal policies; (3) Board and loan committee meeting minutes and packages; (4) pre-failure loan reviews relating to the eleven transactions or the Bank's loan portfolio performed by the Bank or outside auditors; (5) reports of examination [**5] performed by the Bank's primary regulator, the OTS from 2002 forward, and key regulatory correspondence relating the [*675]reports of examination. Notably, the phase I production constitutes the vast majority of the relevant documents in this case. The only impediment to the production of these documents was the entry of an appropriate confidentiality and non-disclosure order. Moreover, the FDIC-R has agreed to produce the phase I documents at its own expense. Thus, with the Court's entry of the confidentiality and non-disclosure order production of the vast majority of documents has been resolved. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 In phase II of production the FDIC-R has proposed that these documents should be produced pursuant to their proposed ESI Protocol. The documents contained in phase II consist of largely marginal documents from a relevancy perspective and are contained in the voluminous ESI the FDIC-R has collected and copied to its DMS database. Under the FDIC-R's ESI protocol, the parties would collaborate in the process of culling relevant documents from the 2.053 terabytes of ESI on the DMS database by using agreed upon search terms and the names of key Bank employees. After relevant information has been identified the information will be uploaded to a database known as "Relativity." The Defendants will then be given private and secure access to Relativity through the internet and be able to search, review and annotate all ESI on Relativity. Defendants will then be able to identify and request any document they want produced. The FDIC-R will then produce the requested documents subject to a privilege review and clawback agreement. The FDIC-R proposes to charge $.06 per page for any document Defendants identify from the Relativity database and then request the FDIC-R to produce. Additionally, the FDIC-R proposes to charge the Defendants $225 per gigabyte of data that is uploaded to the Relativity database. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The FDIC-R suggests that using their proposed ESI protocol will expedite discovery, provide the Defendants with better access to the documents and will greatly reduce the enormous costs it would incur if it was required to utilize traditional methods of collection and review of ESI. Further, the ESI protocol proposed by the FDIC-R was not formulated just for this case but has been used successfully in at least a dozen similar lawsuits brought by the FDIC-R against former officers and directors of failed banks.[fn5]
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Defendants object to the ESI protocol primarily on the grounds that the ESI protocol is an inappropriate cost shifting and "responsibility shifting" scheme by the FDIC-R. According to the Defendants, the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure do not require Defendants to pay the FDIC-R to produce documents kept in the ordinary course of business, regardless of whether the documents are obtained from an ESI database or from the hard copy files. Specifically, the Defendants challenge the protocol because under the protocol they will be required to provide appropriate search terms in the first instance, and not [**6] the FDIC-R, thus placing on them the burden of locating and identifying relevant documents. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 While there are some minor modifications that will be made in the ESI protocol, the Court concludes, for the most part, the ESI protocol proposed by the FDIC-R is appropriate, reasonable and consistent with principles of proportionality when dealing with ESI. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 As to cost shifting, Defendants contend that because the ESI is not inaccessible the Zubulake [fn6] factors for determining whether there should be cost shifting do not even come into play. The Court in Zubulake held that the usual rules of discovery generally apply when the ESI data are in accessible format but that cost shifting could be considered when data were relatively inaccessible, [*676]such as on backup tapes.[fn7] While the Court in Zubulake was focusing upon the issue of cost shifting when dealing with inaccessible ESI, and other courts have required a showing of inaccessibility for cost shifting,[fn8]other courts have held that Rule 26(c) permits cost shifting as part of enforcing proportionality limits.[fn9]
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 There are several reasons that requiring the Defendants to pay some of the cost of producing the ESI makes sense, even assuming the DMS database does not fall within the definition of inaccessible ESI. First, this case does not present a classic example of whether there should be cost shifting in producing ESI. In the typical case in which courts have dealt with the issue of cost shifting \'97 including Zubulake and Peskoff\'97 the lion's share of the expense in producing the ESI concerned the collection and retrieval of the ESI from, for example, backup tapes and other sources which by their very nature made the process extremely expensive and time consuming. That is not the situation in this case. The FDIC-R already has identified, collected and stored all of the information (including all ESI from People's Bank) on the FDIC-R DMS database, setup and established to make discovery less expensive, less burdensome and more expeditious. Indeed, the FDIC-R represents in the Declaration of Ray Rivard, an information technology specialist in the FDIC's Legal Information Technology Unit, that the FDIC has already incurred more than $624,000 in costs for collection, processing and uploading of the files and documents of People's Bank into the DMS database.[fn10] Thus, this case does not involve a situation where there will be an enormous cost in collecting and retrieving ESI \'97 the FDIC-R has already saddled the cost of doing this and expended the time to do so. Consequently, the Defendants' suggestion that the ESI protocol advanced by the FDIC-R is a cost-shifting device is not accurate. Indeed, the costs the Defendants would be required to pay under the ESI protocol include only a $.06 per page charge for converting a document to a TIFF format and a nominal charge for uploading the data to the Relativity database, which the FDIC-R states should be no more than about $200 per month \'97 a charge that pales in comparison to the hundreds of thousands of dollars that are typically incurred in collecting [**7] and retrieving ESI. The $.06 per page charge applicable only to documents Defendants identify on the Relativity database and request the FDIC-R to produce in TIFF format is extremely modest and certainly consistent with the per page cost for photocopying a document, which Defendants would have to pay if the documents were traditional paper documents and not ESI. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Secondly, even assuming the ESI protocol was interpreted to provide cost-shifting, Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 26(b)(2)(C) provides authority for shifting costs as part of the enforcement of proportionality limits. Among the factors the Court may consider in enforcing proportionality limits are: (1) the specificity of the discovery requests; (2) the likelihood of discovering critical information; (3) the purposes for which the responding party maintains the requested data; (4) the relative benefit to the parties of obtaining the information; (5) the total cost associated with the production; (6) [*677]the relative ability of each party to control costs and its incentive to do so; and (7) the resources available to each party.[fn11]
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 The application of these factors strongly supports the ESI protocol proposed by the FDIC-R. The data contained on the DM database contain emails and other documents which probably fall on the outer boundaries of relevant information. The 61,000 documents \'97 which will be produced by the FDIC-R at no cost \'97 contain the key documents relating to the eleven transactions and the review and approval of these loans. Consequently, the ESI protocol concerns largely marginal documents. Further, the 94 discovery requests are far reaching, broad and do not call for the production of specific targeted documents. The collection, retrieval and uploading of the Bank's documents into the DM database \'97 a task that was time consuming and cost hundreds of thousands of dollars \'97 was, in the Court's view, an appropriate and reasonable method to attempt to control the costs of discovery in this case and significantly reduce the time and effort the parties would have spent if discovery of ESI had proceeded in the traditional way. Lastly, the costs Defendants will have to pay under the ESI protocol are relatively small \'97 an expense that these Defendants should be able to bear without impacting their ability to mount a vigorous defense to the claims in this case. Accordingly, the Court concludes that taking into account considerations of proportionality of the discovery requests in these circumstances, the ESI protocol proposed by the FDIC-R is reasonable, necessary and wholly appropriate[fn12] in this case subject to minor modifications made by the Court.[fn13] The Court will, therefore, append to this Order the modified ESI Protocol, which shall control the discovery of ESI in this case. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 B. Defendants' Specific Discovery Requests 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 There are several issues applicable in general to many of the 94 discovery requests. These issues include: (1) whether the FDIC-R must produce documents relating to post-receivership administration, disposition, or sale of the loans and collateral [**8] relevant to the eleven transactions, (2) the relevant time period for the discovery requests; (3) documents relating to the FDIC-R investigation; and (4) attorney-client and work privileges to some of the requests. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Turning first to whether the FDIC-R must produce post-receivership documents the FDIC-R contends that these documents are not subject to discovery because the FDIC's efforts in marshaling the assets of a failed institution are not subject to challenge under what the FDIC describes as the "no-duty" rule. See, e.g. FDIC v. Bierman, 2 F.3d 1424, 1439-40 (7th Cir. 1993); FDIC v. Cherry, Bakaert & Holland, 129 F.R.D. 188, 195-96 (M.D. Fla. 1989). Under the no-duty rule the FDIC's decisions as receiver with respect to the sale of bank's assets are not material. FDIC v. Greenwood, 719 F.Supp. 749, 750-51 (C.D. Ill. 1989). Thus, as a matter [*678]of public policy the decisions of the FDIC in liquidating the assets of a failed bank cannot be second guessed whether couched in terms of contributory negligence, proximate causation or mitigation of damages. Cherry at 195-96. While the non-duty jurisprudence may apply to challenges to the FDIC's post receivership actions, the Court is now concerned with discovery and not whether these types of defenses will be raised or whether evidence relating to these issues will be admitted at trial. Indeed, at this juncture the Defendants have not yet filed a response to the First Amended Complaint so the Court does not know whether defenses will be raised drawing into question the no-duty rule. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 As the Court explained at the hearing, the standard to be applied as to the scope of discovery is whether the evidence is calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. Included within post-receivership documentation is information concerning the disposition of the loans and collateral of the eleven transactions. Although Defendants may be precluded from challenging the decisions made by the FDIC-R as to when and how these assets were foreclosed and disposed of, the Defendants are entitled to know the ultimate disposition of the loans and assets. There very well may be information included within those files which could bear upon the creditworthiness of the borrowers, the bona-fides of the transactions and the financial solvency of the guarantors, information which arguably could have a bearing upon whether the review and approval of the eleven transactions were prudent, sound and consistent with generally accepted banking practices. Accordingly, the FDIC-R's objection to production of post receivership documents on the grounds that such information is not discoverable because of the no-duty rule is overruled. The FDIC-R is required to produce post receivership documents relating to the sale and disposition of the loans and collateral in the eleven transactions involved in this case. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 With regard to the relevant time period for the scope of discovery the Defendants have requested documentation from throughout the Bank's 26 year history. As a general matter while it seems highly unlikely that any documentation could be relevant that predates when [**9] the eleven loans were first brought to the Bank for approval, the FDIC-R has agreed to produce documents dating from 2002, which is three years before the first of the eleven transactions was approved. This period of time is more than reasonable and therefore to the extent the Defendants request production of documents predating 2002 the requests are denied. In the event there are specific and identifiable documents predating 2002 that are essential in this case the Defendants may then make a request for production and if necessary bring the matter to the attention of the Court. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 With regard to the FDIC-R's investigation of the Bank the regulatory investigations of the Bank are confidential under 12 C.F.R. \'a7 308.147 and thus documents relating to the investigation do not have to be produced. This applies only to documents that are not contained within the files of People's Bank. To the extent any reports of examination or regulatory reviews are contained within the files of People's Bank these documents must be produced. With regard to the Material Loss Review, the document is publicly available and therefore Defendants should be able to obtain a copy. However, as to closing reports and other communications prepared by investigators for the FDIC's counsel these documents are attorney-client privileged and thus protected from compelled disclosure. Cherry, 131 F.R.D. at 599. Additionally, any OIG work papers and other investigatory materials not within the possession, custody or control of People's Bank or the FDIC-R are confidential and not subject to production. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 At the hearing, the Defendants identified the loss sharing agreement between the FDIC-R and Hancock Bank as part of the documentation Defendants were requesting. The purchase and sale agreement between the FDIC-R and Hancock Bank is a public document, although portions of it are redacted [*679]as it relates to specific assets. Because there is a confidentiality agreement in place the FDIC-R will be required to produce an unredacted copy of the purchase and sale agreement and/or loss sharing agreement with Hancock Bank. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Lastly, with regard to requests to produce 28 through 94, the requests are contention requests which recite allegations in the complaint and require the FDIC-R to produce documents referring to the specific allegation. The FDIC-R has agreed to produce all documents that support the factual allegations in the complaint but object to being required to categorize the documents to correspond to each of the 66 requests from number 28 through 94. The Court agrees that requiring the FDIC-R to group and categorize the documents to correspond with each request could implicate the thought processes of counsel and thus invade the work product privilege. See, Sporkv. Peil, 759 F.2d 312, 316 (3d Cir. 1985). The FDIC-R will, however, be required to produce documents responsive to these requests consistent with the limits and guidelines on discovery discussed in this order. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 As to requests nos. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27 and 28 through 94 the FDIC-R is required [**10] to produce documents responsive to these requests consistent with, as limited by this Order, and where applicable, pursuant to the ESI Protocol approved by the Court. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Accordingly, for these reasons, Defendants' Motion to Compel is granted in part and is denied in part to the extent that the Court has narrowed and limited the scope of production of documents in this order.[fn14]
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 II. CONCLUSION 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 In light of the foregoing and upon due consideration, it is ORDERED: 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 1. Plaintiff's Motion For Entry of Protective Order Relating to Confidentiality And Non-Disclosure (Doc. 13) is GRANTED. The Confidentiality and Non-Disclosure Order entered separately by the Court shall control the production of documents and confidential material in this case. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 2. Defendants' Motion to Compel Production of Documents, Strike Or Overrule Objections, And For Sanctions (Doc. 15) is GRANTED in part andDENIED in part. The FDIC-R shall produce documents as required by this Order. The FDIC-R must produce the documents identified in Phase I of discovery as soon as possible and not later than ten (10) business days from the date of this Order. The terms of the ESI Protocol appended to this Order are incorporated into this Order and shall control discovery in this case. The parties must comply with the ESI Protocol appended to this Order including the requirement that the Defendants pay the charges identified in the ESI Protocol. The parties are directed to begin implementing the ESI Protocol as soon as possible and are further directed to cooperate with each other in the implementation of and compliance with the ESI Protocol. Although the Court has not included specific deadlines for implementing the ESI Protocol the parties are directed to make all reasonable efforts to do so as expeditiously as possible and in recognition of the fact the discovery deadline is October 31, 2013. The Defendants' request for sanctions is denied. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 DONE AND ORDERED. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn1] At the hearing counsel for the FDIC-R represented that the database of ESI consists of all paper documents and all data records and electronic files of Peoples as of the date Peoples was taken over by the FDIC and closed. After Peoples was closed the FDIC-R collected and processed 2.053 terabytes of ESI from the bank's files, which included 52,000 paper documents converted to ESI and 45 million data records and 1.5 million electronic files. Documents after that date generated by the FDIC and documents generated by Hancock Bank, which purchased various assets of Peoples, are not included in the ESI database collected and prepared by the FDIC-R. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn2] As an example of the volume of documents that will need to be produced, the FDIC-R represents that it is prepared to produce approximately 61,000 documents in the first phase of discovery 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn3] See, e.g. Chicago Tribune Co. v. Bridgestone/Firestone, Inc., 263 F.3d 1304, 1310-15 (11th Cir. 2001). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn4] For example, in many of its responses to the requests the FRIC-R has included an objection that the request is "vague, ambiguous, overly broad, unduly burdensome . . ." or that the request is "overly broad, unduly burdensome, seeks irrelevant information, and it is not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence" and then proceeded to advise that subject to such objections it would produce responsive documents. While the Court recognizes that it may be a common practice to raise boilerplate objections and then produce documents subject to the objection the practice is prohibited by N.D. Fla.Loc.R. 26.2(C)(1), which requires that objections and grounds for objection shall be addressed to the specific request for production, and may not be made generally. Simply "[I]ntoning the 'overly broad and burdensome' litany, without more, does not express a valid objection." See Mead Corp. v. Riverwood NaturalResources Corp., 145 F.R.D. 512, 515 (D. Minn. 1992). Thus, the form boilerplate objections shall not be considered by the Court and are nullity. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn5] See, e.g. FDIC v. Johnson, et al., No. 2:12-cv-00209-KJD-PAL (D. Nev. Mar. 22, 2013 and FDIC v. Baker, No. 1:12-cv-04173-RWS (N.D. Ga. April 18, 2013). Copies of these orders are located at Doc. 19, Exs. C and D. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn6] Zubulake v. UBS Warburg LLC, 216 F.R.D. 280, 284 (S.D. N.Y. 2003). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn7] Zubulake v. UBS Warburg LLC, 217 F.R.D. 309, 322 (S.D. N.Y. 2003). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn8] See, e.g. Peskoff v. Faber, 240 F.R.D. 26, 31 (D. D.C. 2007) ("[A]ccessible data must be produced at the cost of the producing party; cost shifting does not even become a possibility unless there is first a showing of inaccessibility."); Pipefitters Local No. 636 Pension Fund v.Mercer Human Res. Consulting, Inc., 2007 WL 2080365, at *2 (E.D. Mich. July 19, 2007). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn9] See, e.g. Thompson v. U.S. Dep't of Housing and Urban Dev., 219 F.R.D. 93, 98 (D. Md. 2003) (The options available are limited only by the court's own imagination and the quality and quantity of the factual information provided by the parties to be used by the Court in evaluating the Rule 26(b) factors. The court can, for example, shift the cost, in whole or part, of burdensome and expensive Rule 34 discovery to the requesting party . . . "). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn10] Doc. 19, Ex. A, \'b6 13. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn11] Rowe Entertainment, Inc. V. William Morris Agency, Inc., 205 F.R.D. 421, 428-29 (S.D. N.Y. 2002, aff'd, 53 Fed. R.Serv.3d 296 (S.D. N.Y. 2002). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn12] Defendants' objection to the protocol on the grounds that it shifts the burden to the Defendants because they are required to initially propose the search terms is not very persuasive. First, Defendants \'97 former directors and an officer of the Bank \'97 stand in the best position to know the names, titles and other information as to the custodians, the names of files and how the Bank's documents are stored. It thus makes sense that the Bank would be involved in the first instance in formulating appropriate search terms. Secondly, the search process of the DMS database contemplates that the process should be a mutual collaboration and thus the Court expects the parties to work together, notwithstanding which side first proposes the search terms. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn13] For example, paragraph 4 of the ESI protocol limits the search term process to no more than 3 iterations of custodian and search terms and hit reports. While this number is not necessarily unreasonable it does impose an arbitrary limit. The Court therefore has changed the limit on iterations to a "reasonable number." The Court expects the parties to act in good faith and reasonably in implementing the ESI protocol. In the event, however, a dispute develops as to the number of iterations of search terms the parties may present the issue to the Court for resolution. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn14] The Defendants' request for sanctions is denied. The FDIC-R's failure to produce documents until an appropriate confidentiality and non-disclosure order was entered and offer to produce ESI pursuant to the ESI protocol was reasonable and justified. Accordingly, there is no basis for the entry of sanctions. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb566\sa1133\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0          
\f0\fs42 General Information\

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 Judge(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Gary R. Jones\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Related Docket(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 5:12-cv-00398 (N.D. Fla.);\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Topic(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Civil Procedure; Evidence; Banking & Finance\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Industries\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Banking\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Date Filed\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 2013-06-14 00:00:00\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Parties\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATION, as Receiver for Peoples First Community Bank, Plaintiff, v. Greg M. BRUDNICKI, Joseph F. Chapman, III, Henry Clayton Futrell, Philip W. Griffitts, John Robert Middlemas, Jr., Rodney C. Morris, Raymond E. Powell, and John Stephen Wilson, II, Defendants.\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Case Type\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 SO\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Court\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 United States District Court for the Northern District of Florida\cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\li674\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\fs20 \cf0 Pagination \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 *
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 BL
\f1\fs24 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\li674\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Majority Opinion > 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA, MIAMI DIVISION\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0  \uc0\u8232 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 PROCAPS S.A., Plaintiff, v. PATHEON INC., Defendant. 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0  \uc0\u8232 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 CASE NO. 12-24356-CIV-GOODMAN \
July 20, 2015, Filed July 20, 2015, Decided \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 For Mr. John M. Barkett, Shook Hardy & Bacon LLP, MIami, FL, Special Master: John Moses Barkett, LEAD ATTORNEY, Shook Hardy & Bacon, Miami, FL.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 For Procaps S.A., a Colombian sociedad anonima, Plaintiff: Chris S. Coutroulis, Donald R. Schmidt, LEAD ATTORNEY, D Matthew Allen, Carlton Fields Jorden Burt, P.A., Tampa, FL; Gary Michael Pappas, LEAD ATTORNEY, Avi Robert Kaufman, Charles Woodward Throckmorton, V, Alan Rosenthal, Carlton Fields Jorden Burt, P.A., Miami, FL; Karen L. Hagberg, Michael B. Miller, LEAD ATTORNEY, PRO HAC VICE, Morrison & Foerster, New York, NY; Carlton Fields P.A., LEAD ATTORNEY, Miami Tower, Miami, FL; Robert Wayne Pass, Carlton Fields Jorden Burt, P.A., Tallahassee, FL.\
For Patheon Inc., a Canadian corporation, Defendant: David A. Vogel, Robert T. Cahill, LEAD ATTORNEY, PRO HAC VICE, Cooley, LLP, Reston, VA; Dee Bansal, Joshua M. Siegel, Marc Schildkraut, Michael J. Klisch, LEAD ATTORNEY, Meredith M. Snyder, PRO HAC VICE, Cooley, LLP, Washington, DC; Douglas P. Lobel, LEAD ATTORNEY, Cooley, LLP, Reston, VA; M. Howard Morse, LEAD ATTORNEY, Cooley, LLP, Washington, DC; Mary Kathryn Kelley, LEAD ATTORNEY, Cooley, LLP, San Diego, CA; Mazda K. Antia, LEAD ATTORNEY, PRO HAC VICE, Cooley, LLP, San Diego, CA; Robert Mark Brochin, LEAD ATTORNEY, Morgan Lewis & Bockius, Miami, FL.
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Jonathon Goodman, UNITED STATES DISTRICT JUDGE.
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Jonathon Goodman \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 [CONSENT CASE]
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 ORDER ON PATHEON'S MOTION TO COMPEL RE-REVIEW AND RE-DESIGNATION OF "HIGHLY CONFIDENTIAL" DOCUMENTS
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 "Why are we keeping secrets / Why don't we both come clean and begin" 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 - Christine McVie, from the "Keeping Secrets" song1 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Defendant Patheon Inc. ("Patheon") wants the Court to require Plaintiff Procaps S.A. ("Procaps") to re-review and re-designate "highly confidential" documents so that Patheon employees, and not merely its attorneys, may see material Procaps has designated as being worthy of the greatest protection afforded under an agreed Confidentiality Order [ECF No. 86]. Patheon advises that Procaps designated 95% of its forensically-produced documents (141,525 of 148,636) as "highly confidential" and contends that this mass designation was not done in good faith and is generating undue and severe prejudice. In its motion to compel re-review and re-designation [ECF No. 804], Patheon asks the Court to permit it to use all documents without restriction, subject only to Procaps' ability to in good faith re-designate documents as either "confidential" or "highly confidential" within 5 calendar days.\
In addition, Patheon wants Procaps to redact portions of its revised supplemental interrogatory answers and its damages expert's report so that Patheon's employees may review them.\
Not surprisingly, Procaps disagrees and opposes [ECF No. 813] the relief requested in the motion. It argues that its designations were made in good faith. It concedes that there is over-designation, but it contends that the unnecessary designations were innocuous mistakes which were made because the review of forensic production [*2] was done on an expedited basis. Procaps argues that re-review and re-designation are "unnecessary, burdensome and prejudicial, if not impossible." It says the circumstances do not merit the requested relief, and it offers two alternatives.\
In its reply [ECF No. 815], Patheon argues that Procaps (1) concedes the over-designation and does not challenge the statistics, (2) cites no law contradicting the authority which requires re-designation under these circumstances, (3) inappropriately tries to blame the vendor who performed the initial document review and designation evaluation, (4) unpersuasively relies on the tight deadline it had in which to review, designate and produce ESI, (5) incorrectly refuses to agree that two in-house attorneys may review material after the level of classification is downloaded, (6) will not need to re-review documents because (Patheon suggests) it never reviewed them in the first place (and, instead, marked nearly all documents as highly confidential to avoid the review), and (7) should pay almost $35,000 for the fees and costs incurred in connection with the motion.\
For the reasons outlined below, the Court grants the motion. It is difficult to believe that 95% of the documents produced in a court-ordered forensic examination of Procaps' electronically stored information ("ESI") are all actually worthy of the "highly confidential" designation. Procaps has over-designated documents -- a conclusion it now acknowledges -- but there is not much time in which to provide any meaningful relief. Patheon may use all the recently-produced (from the forensic analysis by Setec) documents, even if marked "confidential" or "highly confidential," unless Procaps re-designates in good faith documents into one of these two categories by Thursday, July 30, 2015 at 5:00 p.m., EST. In addition, because Procaps' sweeping designations were not permitted by the Stipulated Confidentiality Order and were actually a misuse of the defined designations, Procaps will also be required to pay $25,000 in attorney's fees and costs. This is the natural consequence (under Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 37 ) of being on the losing side of a discovery motion without substantial justification.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Factual Background
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Procaps is a Colombia-based company that develops and manufactures softgel capsules. It entered into a Collaboration Agreement with Patheon, which provides commercial manufacturing and development services to the pharmaceutical industry. Under the Collaboration Agreement, the parties manufactured and sold softgels through a unified brand, and agreed to share profits, expenses and the risk of failure. Even though the Collaboration Agreement allocated markets and customers among horizontal competitors, the parties agree that this arrangement was lawful because it brought a new competitor and a new product into the Territory and Field.\
The parties' collaboration did not go well, and Patheon, without advising Procaps, began to again consider entering into a strategic relationship with Banner Pharmcaps Europe B.V., a competitor of Procaps that specialized [*3] in the research, manufacture and distribution of softgel products. Patheon ultimately acquired Banner without Procaps' approval. Procaps believed the Collaboration Agreement had morphed into an illegal horizontal restraint on trade as a result of Patheon's acquisition of Banner. Procaps filed a federal court lawsuit against Patheon in December 2012. In its current form, the Complaint seeks more than $300 million in treble antitrust damages against Patheon under a "Rule of Reason" evaluation.\
In July 2013, the Undersigned entered a Stipulated Confidentiality Order [ECF No. 86] which the parties submitted. For purposes of this Order, two definitions in the stipulated order are important: "Confidential Information" and "Highly Confidential Information."\
"Confidential Information" is defined as discovery material "containing information that either: (i) has not been made public and the Producing Party would not make public in the ordinary course of its activities; (ii) the Producing Party is under a preexisting obligation to a non-party to treat as confidential; (iii) the Producing Party has good faith been requested by the Receiving Party to so mark on the ground that the Receiving Party considers such material to contain information that is confidential or proprietary to the Receiving Party; or (iv) the Receiving Party has in good faith been requested by a Producing Party to so mark on the ground that the Producing Party such material to contain information that is confidential or proprietary to the Producing Party." [sic]. [ECF No. 86, pp. 2-3].\
"Highly Confidential Information" is a "narrow subset of "Confidential Information," containing trade secrets or information of a competitively sensitive nature that would create a genuine risk of competitive injury if disclosed to a Receiving Party." [ Id., at p. 3 (emphasis added)].\
Pursuant to the Stipulated Confidentiality Order, "Confidential Information" may be disclosed to, among other recipients, counsel and "any employee of a Party who Counsel believes in good faith has a need to access the information solely for the purposes of this Action." But "Highly Confidential Information" may not be disclosed to a Party or its employees (although it may be shown to the party's outside counsel). (emphasis supplied). This type of restriction is often also known as an "attorney's eyes only" ("AEO") limitation.\
Section 3 of the Stipulated Confidentiality Order concerns "designation of protected material." Subsections (a) and (b) provide in relevant part: "Discovery Material that the Producing Party believes in good faith to contain or constitute" "Confidential" or "Highly Confidential" information may be so designated. [ Id., at pp. 4-5 (emphasis added)].\
Section 8 of the Stipulated Confidentiality Order provides the procedure for challenging confidentiality designations. [ Id., at p. 14]. Any party challenging a designation must first serve notice upon counsel for the producing party within two business days of filing a challenge with the Court. The parties are required to first "attempt to resolve such [*4] challenges in good faith on an informal basis," but the "burden of proof shall be on the Producing Party claiming 'Protected Material' status for the Discovery Material." [ Id. (emphasis added)].\
In an email leading up to the parties' submission of the proposed Stipulated Confidentiality Order, Procaps' counsel made the following points [ECF No. 804-1]: the definition of "highly confidential" would need to "guard against the wholesale marking of documents under that designation," because it would "hamper[] the opposing party from showing such documents to their client for purposes of prosecuting or defending the litigation." Procaps' counsel also noted that "the mere fact that a party designates a document as 'confidential' or 'highly confidential' pursuant to a confidentiality agreement or umbrella order does not, in and of itself, mean that those documents are in fact trade secrets entitled to be protected under either tier."\
Approximately a month after the Court entered the Stipulated Confidentiality Order, Procaps filed a motion [ECF No. 96] to require Patheon to re-designate "highly confidential" documents. In the motion, Procaps argued that relief was necessary because Patheon had designated as "highly confidential" more than 35% of its produced documents.\
In its motion, Procaps represented that "when the parties agreed to the 'attorney's eyes only' restriction of the Highly Confidential category, they both understood that the Highly Confidential category was to be used sparingly." (emphasis added). Procaps also noted that "overly broad stipulated orders are generally disfavored." It also explained that "an overly broad use of the Highly Confidential category necessarily precludes documents from being shared with the parties to a case, even though they have otherwise agreed to confidentiality and restricted use."\
Pursuing a similar point, Procaps reminded the Court that the application of the "highly confidential" category "to specific documents should be limited to information that truly requires highly sensitive protection." Procaps further noted that "overly broad designations hamper counsel's ethical obligation to keep the client informed."\
Based on these principles, Procaps argued then that Patheon's "abuse of the 'highly confidential' designation is obvious from the percentage of documents so designated" -- 35%. But the parties then reached an agreement that certain documents submitted to the Court as illustrative samples should remain "highly confidential" but that others should be downgraded to confidential or completely de-designated, leaving 49 pages (out of 100 pages submitted under seal for in camera review) of "highly confidential" documents still under dispute. Procaps' motion asked that Patheon rereview 8,893 documents.\
Part of this first dispute arising from the Stipulated Confidentiality Order concerned the methodology of designating -- whether the Producing Party could use a document-by-document methodology or whether a page-by-page approach would be permissible.\
Significantly ([*5] at least for purposes of the instant motion), the parties agreed "that if one party over-designates in bad faith, then the burden shifts to the producing party to re-review its designations." [ECF No. 121, p. 13 (emphasis added)].\
In the September 2013 Order [ECF No. 121] denying as premature Procaps' motion to require re-designation, the Undersigned concluded that the stipulated confidentiality order provides for document-by-document designations. In addition, the Undersigned noted then that the published cases where courts found a lack of good faith involved percentages of highly confidential documents significantly greater than 50%.\
The Court noted then (in September 2013) that it was too early to determine whether Patheon's designations were made without the requisite good faith. The Court authorized Procaps to make specific page-by-page challenges. It never did. In addition, the Court permitted Procaps to file a motion for fees and costs and/or for complete review and designation if it had proof that Patheon did not act in good faith. It never did that either.\
After this early discovery skirmish over the stipulated confidentiality order, the Court learned that Procaps failed to timely implement a litigation hold and conduct adequate discovery of its own ESI. At Patheon's request, the Court in February 2014 ordered a forensic analysis of Procaps' electronic media. The forensic analysis took a significant amount of time and was plagued by myriad logistical and administrative hurdles, which triggered the need for the Undersigned to appoint (in July 2014, with the parties' agreement) a special master for ESI issues. [ECF No. 558]. The ESI was not produced in full to Patheon until June 2015.\
Trial is set to begin on November 16, 2015 [ECF No. 655]. Summary judgment motions are due by August 28, 2015. Although deposition discovery is, for all intents and purposes, over, there are a few specific fact witness depositions which the Court has permitted for certain limited issues. Those depositions, as well as Court-ordered mediation, are scheduled for the first two weeks of August, 2015 (i.e., within slightly more than three weeks). Patheon is scheduled to take the depositions of Procaps' rebuttal experts by September 1, 2015. [ECF No. 795, pp. 1-2].\
Patheon filed its motion for re-designation of highly confidential documents on July 13, 2015. The motion explains that Procaps marked each highly confidential document with the "highly confidential" legend but did so in a way which prevented Patheon from doing a computer search for the term "highly confidential." To count the number of highly confidential documents, Patheon performed optical character recognition ("OCR") to generate searchable text and then searched for the term "highly confidential" in the OCR text.\
Patheon attached several emails (between its counsel and Procaps' counsel) as exhibits. In a July 8, 2015 email, Patheon's counsel noted that Procaps' position -- that Patheon's employees, including its general counsel, could not review the highly confidential documents -- is "significantly [*6] prejudicing Patheon's defense of the case." Specifically, defense counsel "will not be able to get any client input on these documents for the upcoming depositions and our client cannot fully assess this case for purposes of mediation or trial."\
After explaining that Patheon's general counsel asked to see the highly confidential documents to "evaluate the case for mediation," Patheon's lead trial counsel advised Procaps' counsel to "please don't be surprised if, at the mediation, this is a serious impediment to settling the case." [ECF No. 804-4, pp. 2-3]. The highly confidential documents include Procaps' rule of reason interrogatory answers, which is also part of Patheon's motion at issue here, and its damages expert's report. Patheon wants two in-house attorneys, Eric Sherbet and Jason Conner, to review the highly confidential documents.\
According to Patheon's motion, 148,636 Procaps documents were produced in the forensic analysis, and Procaps designated 141,525 of them as "highly confidential." Patheon says this is approximately 95% of the forensic production. Patheon also calculated that 91% of Procaps' entire production (141,696 of 155,759 documents) was branded by Procaps as "highly confidential."\
Patheon explained that it reviewed a random statistical sample of 384 documents marked "highly confidential" (because reviewing the entire forensic document production would be too unwieldy). It then applied the results -- i.e., the percentage of documents not highly confidential -- to the entire production of 155,759 documents. Patheon's sample size review, which it claims allows for a 95% confidence level and a 5% margin of error, generated results establishing that a substantial number of designated documents are not, in fact, "highly confidential."\
Under Patheon's statistical analysis, 32,709 documents (21% of the Procaps production) were generated by Patheon itself or related to the Collaboration and P-gels -- i.e., not highly confidential. Moreover, 10,903 documents (7% of the Procaps production) were SPAM email, publicly available documents or documents with little or no substance or with absolutely no Procaps information -- not highly confidential. Under the Patheon sampling methodology, Procaps incorrectly designated as "highly confidential" approximately 28% of the forensic production, which is not a surprising result, given that Procaps designated 95% of its forensic production as "highly confidential."\
Procaps does not dispute these statistics in its response. Instead, it explains that it reviewed approximately 150,000 documents at a rate of 50,000 per week through a third party vendor who "interpreted and applied the protocols conservatively," which resulted in the "apparent over-designation of documents as Highly Confidential." According to Procaps, this outside vendor conducted the "initial review of all documents," but it seems that Procaps' counsel performed (or should have performed) the later-stage reviews and made the final decisions about designations.\
Procaps says it immediately engaged in a meet-and-confer [*7] process after Patheon requested relief, but it accuses Patheon of being "intransigent" and "prematurely terminat[ing]" the process in order to file the instant motion. It also contends that the legal authority relied upon by Patheon is inapposite because, "irrespective of the percentage of documents designated as Highly Confidential, Procaps has not acted in bad faith."\
Procaps offers two alternative solutions to the one Patheon requests for the forensically-produced documents: (1) Patheon should identify, with Bates numbers, the specific documents it wants Procaps to re-review and re-designate, and Procaps will then perform a review of those pinpointed documents, or (2) Procaps would pay for the Special Master (for ESI issues) to review the documents specified by Patheon for possible re-designation.\
Patheon does not address either of these two alternatives in its reply.\
Procaps also suggested an alternative solution to the dispute surrounding the supplemental interrogatory answers (which outline the grounds for its Rule of Reason claim) and expert report. Before summarizing this suggestion, however, the Court must first provide additional facts about the unique scenario surrounding the snafu:\
If a document is designated as "highly confidential," then it may be disclosed to outside counsel, but not inside counsel. If a document is designated as merely "Confidential," however, then it may be disclosed to an employee of a Party who outside counsel believes in good faith has a need to access the information solely for use in this lawsuit. It may not, however, be disclosed to third parties.\
The dispute here arises, at least in part, from the fact that Jason Conner is an employee of Patheon Pharmacuetical Services, Inc., which, despite the similar-sounding name, Procaps says is not Defendant Patheon Inc. and is therefore not a corporate party defendant to the litigation. Moreover, he is also assistant general counsel of DPx Holdings B.V. ("DPx"), which is, for all intents and purposes, Patheon's parent (but not a named party defendant in this lawsuit). Procaps has asked the Court to substitute DPx for Patheon or to add it as a defendant, but the Court has not yet ruled.\
Although Procaps contends that Conner would never be eligible to review confidential documents because he is not employed by Patheon, it does not make a similar argument about Sherbet. It does, however, note that Sherbet is also an attorney with DPx.\
Procaps offered to redact highly confidential information from its supplemental interrogatory answers and expert report, so that Patheon employees could review them. However, Patheon rejected that proposal, a response which Procaps attributes to Patheon's apparent intent to disclose the materials to Conner (and perhaps Sherbet). [Much of the email traffic on this point focuses on Conner, but Patheon also wants Sherbet to review confidential material]. Procaps contends that the redacted documents could be shown to Patheon employees, but not to Conner (because he is not a Patheon employee, and, even if he were, he is [*8] also in-house counsel for DPx, a non-party). Procaps says it seeks practical solutions to these disagreements.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Applicable Legal Principles and Analysis
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 26(c) governs the stipulated order governing the confidentiality designations in this case. That rule authorizes a court to enter an order "to protect a party or person from annoyance, embarrassment, oppression, or undue burden or expense." Among the type of relief illustrated in subsection (c) is, in subsection (G) , "requiring that a trade secret or other confidential research, development, or commercial information not be revealed or be revealed only in a specified way." (emphasis added).\
Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 37(a)(5) requires, except when one or more of three exceptions apply, the Court to pay the movant's reasonable expenses, including attorney's fees, if a motion to compel disclosure is granted.\
The "failure to obey a protective order's prohibition against indiscriminate designations is covered by Rule 37 " and its fee-shifting presumption in favor of the party prevailing on a motion to compel. Del Campo v. Am. Corrective Counseling Servs., Inc., No. C-01-21151, [2007 BL 143157], 2007 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 87150 , 2007 WL 3306496 , at *4 (N.D. Cal., Nov. 6, 2007).\
An AEO designation such as the "highly confidential" designation which Procaps used for 95% of the documents it forensically produced is "the most restrictive possible protective order" because it "confines dissemination of discovery materials only to the opposing party's attorneys and other consultants/experts specified in the agreement." When this type of designation is challenged, the party seeking to uphold the designation (e.g., Procaps) "must describe the alleged harm it will suffer from any disclosure 'with a particular and specific demonstration of fact, as distinguished from stereotyped and conclusory statements.'" Penn, LLC v. Prosper Bus. Devel. Corp., No. 2:10-cv-0993, 2012 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 168577 , 2012 WL 59483 63 (S.D. Ohio Nov. 28, 2012) (quoting Nemir v. Mitsubishi Motors Corp., 381 F.3d 540 , 550 (6th Cir. 2004). See generally Brown v. Tellermate Holdings, Ltd., No. 2:11-cv-1122, [2014 BL 188581], 2014 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 90123 , 2014 WL 2987051 , at *23 (S.D. Ohio, July 1, 2014) (showing of harm which the designating party must make "must be particularized and cannot simply rest on conclusory statements").\
Many courts have noted that a good faith requirement is "implicit" in the protective order and its provision for designating documents as confidential or AEO (or highly confidential). See, e.g., Paradigm Alliance, Inc. v. Celeritas Techs., LLC, 248 F.R.D. 598 , 605 (D. Kan. 2008). But the good faith requirement here is actually a requirement of the Stipulated Confidentiality Order that both parties submitted to the Court. Specifically, numbered paragraph 3 defines the discovery material governed by the order to be material that the producing party "believes in good faith to contain or constitute" either confidential or highly confidential information. (emphasis added).\
Many courts have held that the indiscriminate use of an AEO designation poses "a significant handicap on the restricted litigant" because "[d]iscovery, trial preparation, and trial are made more difficult and expensive if an attorney cannot make complete disclosure of the facts to the litigant." Arvco Container Corp. v. Weyerhaeuser, No. 1:08-[*9] cv-548, [2009 BL 24170], 2009 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 9264 , 2009 WL 311125 , at *6 (W.D. Mich. Feb. 9, 2009). In addition, "courts cannot ignore the fact that ninety-eight percent of cases are not tried, but are resolved in mediation and other settlement methods."2 Id . Consequently, "it is difficult, and perhaps impossible, for an attorney to counsel a client to compromise or even abandon a case on the basis of information kept secret from the client." Id . See also K & M Int'l, Inc. v. NDY Toy, L.L.C., No. 1:13CV771, [2015 BL 32767], 2015 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 15415 , 2015 WL 520969 (N.D. Ohio Feb. 9, 2015) (noting that preventing counsel from sharing and discussing discovery with their client "creates a substantial impediment" to the client's "ability to prepare and litigate" the claim).3 \
Although federal courts do not seem to have established a specific bright line test to determine when a party's designation of discovery as AEO in excess of a certain percentage is deemed presumptively improper, designation percentages of 95% -- such as the rate used here by Procaps -- have frequently been condemned. In fact, many courts confronted with this level of designations (and lower designations) brand the percentage as "absurd." See e.g., THK Am., Inc. v. NSK Co. Ltd., 157 F.R.D. 637 , 645 (N.D. Ill. 1993) (79% is "absurdly high"); In re Ullico Inc., 237 F.R.D. 314 , 317-18 (D.D.C. 2006) (99% designation rate was a "gross[] abuse[]" of the designation, was done in bad faith and was a "flagrant unwarranted designation" which "unfairly burdened" the opposing party). See generally Healthtrio, LLC v. Aetna, Inc., No. 12-cv-03229, [2014 BL 343835], 2014 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 169321 , 2014 WL 6886923 (D. Col. Dec. 5, 2014) (90% designation rate is "an absurd number" which is "made all the more absurd by Defendants' failure to designate a single document as Confidential but not [AEO]," a scenario which caused the Court to conclude that Defendants "acted in bad faith by indiscriminately designating nearly their entire production" as AEO).\
Unlike parties in other cases who seek to justify designations with vague explanations, Procaps does not try to argue that 95% of the documents are in fact entitled to highly confidential status, nor does it seek to rationalize a slightly lower designation rate. Rather, it concedes the excessive justification but tries to minimize the consequences by saying it always acted in good faith, providing a reason for the unfortunate scenario (i.e., they were rushing under a tight deadline) and offering less-drastic alternatives.\
But Procaps' indiscriminate designation of documents as highly confidential should not lead to the "result of improperly shifting the cost of review of confidentiality" to Patheon. Del Campo, [2007 BL 143157], 2007 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 87150 , 2007 WL 3306496 , at *4 (explaining that a party's "belated recognition" that the designation could not be supported "does not render its behavior substantially justified and does nothing to undermine the justification for sanctions"). See also Paradigm Alliance, 248 F.R.D. at 605 (explaining that party's argument that it "fixed things" brought to its attention "is an inadequate response" because the duty of good faith in the protective order is a "duty to review the documents in good faith before designating them as AEO") (emphasis in original by Court); Healthtrio, LLC, [2014 BL 343835], 2014 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 169321 , 2014 WL 6886923 , at *3 (rejecting designating party's suggestion that opposing party cannot make a blanket challenge but must challenge [*10] individual documents or pages because designating party "waived the provisions of the protective order by acting in bad faith").\
The Court is not persuaded by Procaps' efforts to allocate blame to the third party vendor or to the deadline. First, from an overarching perspective, the need to conduct the expedited forensic ESI analysis arose from Procaps' failure to conduct an appropriate ESI search in the first place. Thus, to the extent there are logistical problems associated with the forensic review, Procaps is responsible because it is Procaps' inattentiveness which created the ESI snafu. Second, Procaps should have staffed the project with sufficient team members (either from an outside vendor, its own attorneys or contract attorneys). Third, Procaps is ultimately responsible for the designations. Fourth, if Procaps realized that the review was taking longer than anticipated, then it should have immediately made adjustments and increased the number of members on the review team or increased the level of effort from team members. And fifth, the consequences of the over-designation, regardless of why it happened, should not fall on the party (i.e., Patheon) who did nothing wrong. See generally Brown, [2014 BL 188581], 2014 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 90123 , 2014 WL 2987051 , at *22 ("the alleged burden imposed by a high volume production does not provide the producing party or its counsel free reign to choose a given designation and ignore the Court's order pertaining to that designation").\
The Court will now focus specifically on Procaps' two suggested alternatives:\
First, requiring Patheon to specifically identify the precise documents it wants Procaps to re-review and re-designate (if appropriate) would unduly punish Patheon for Procaps' failings. Given that the very last fact depositions are about to be taken in a few weeks, it is inequitable to shift the burden of reviewing more than 141,000 documents to Patheon, who is in no way responsible for Procaps' less-than-precise (to be diplomatic) use of the designation methodology established in the very confidentiality order it jointly proposed. Cf. THK Am., Inc., 157 F.R.D. at 647 (finding that defendants "lost the right" to use the AEO classification, requiring de-designation and reclassification into either "confidential" or "non-confidential" categories on a "forthwith" basis and explaining that "any extra costs incurred by the offending party," such as "assigning additional personnel to review and reclassify the documents over weekends and holidays are part and parcel of the sanction imposed for the intentionally wrongful designations").\
Second, asking the ESI Special Master to review the materials flagged by Patheon generates the same undue burden consequence and also creates the virtually inevitable result of unreasonable delay. Ullico, 237 F.R.D. at 318 (explaining that one party "should not be prejudiced as a result of what can be viewed as [the other party's] bad faith participation in discovery" and noting that, "because of the sheer quantity of documents involved, it is especially important for this burden to remain with" the designating party).\
In order for [*11] this suggestion to be implemented, Patheon would need to assign its own team of attorneys to review 141,000 documents so that specific documents could be flagged for re-review by the Special Master. This would take several days, if not more.\
Moreover, the Special Master is a busy attorney with an active practice, and Procaps has not advised that it has contacted the Special Master to confirm that he even has the time to now review documents. Moreover, even if the Special Master had absolutely nothing else to do (which is unlikely), it is inconceivable that only one person could effectively review the flagged documents in the time necessary to permit Patheon to use the documents the Special Master were to find as improperly classified at the upcoming depositions. In fact, Procaps' response explained that it used a third party vendor to review documents at a rate of 50,000 per week. Given that the vendor used multiple reviewers, it is fundamentally illogical to assume that one busy attorney would be able to conduct a sufficient review in less than several weeks, even if the universe of documents pinpointed for evaluation by Patheon were less than 141,000.\
Obviously, a team of many attorneys will be required, and the attorneys selected will likely need to work nights and weekends. The Undersigned is not prepared to ask the Special Master to commit to a round-the-clock schedule because (1) it would still not be sufficient, and (2) it would be a classic illustration of "no good deed goes unpunished." Procaps' offer to pay the Special Master's fees is an academic point.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 The Remedy
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Given that Procaps admits to over-designating the documents from the forensic production as highly confidential and given that its suggested alternatives to Patheon's recommended remedy are unworkable, the Court will now assess Patheon's proposal.\
There is ample legal authority to support the remedy of allowing Patheon to use all the documents designated from the forensic production as highly confidential, subject to Procaps' good faith re-designation, on a specific, document-by-document basis, by Thursday, July 30, 2015, at 5:00 p.m., EST.4 See generally Brown, [2014 BL 188581], 2014 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 90123 , 2014 WL 2987051 ;  Ullico, 237 F.R.D. 314 ;  THK Am., Inc., 157 F.R.D. 637 ; Healthtrio, LLC, [2014 BL 343835], 2014 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 169321 , 2014 WL 6886923 ; Broadspring, Inc. v. Congoo, LLC, No. 13-CV-1866, [2014 BL 230442], 2014 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 116070 , 2014 WL 4100615 (S.D.N.Y. Aug. 20, 2014)(ordering re-designation and production within a week).\
Procaps does not cite any contrary case law or other authority. Instead, it seeks to avoid these consequences by saying it acted in good faith under difficult circumstances (i.e., many documents being reviewed in a short amount of time) and tried to resolve the dispute. As explained above, the Court is not convinced that these arguments are sufficient to avoid the consequences which Patheon classifies as necessary. Brown, [2014 BL 188581], 2014 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 90123 , 2014 WL 2987051 , at *22.\
To be sure, Procaps will undoubtedly be under an extremely tight deadline to re-review and re-designate documents. It may need to use a dozen or more attorneys working nights and an entire weekend. This will undoubtedly be burdensome, but, given the choice of burdening Patheon (to re-review the entire production and list specific [*12] documents worthy of re-review by Procaps or the Special Master) or Procaps, the Undersigned sees no reason to shift the burden to Patheon. Procaps is responsible for its over-designations. Even if an outside vendor conducted the first level of review, Procaps cannot avoid its discovery obligations by shifting blame to the third party it hired for the project. Moreover, Procaps' attorneys presumably performed the final review, and one or more of its attorneys realized, or should have realized, that a 95% highly confidential, AEO designation rate is problematic and questionable (or "absurd") on its face.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 The Interrogatory Answer and the Damages Expert's Report
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 If, as Procaps has offered, Procaps redacts information from these highly confidential materials and re-designates them so that they are merely confidential documents, and if Conner is a Patheon employee, then the Stipulated Confidentiality Order permits him to review the interrogatory answer and expert report which would now be designated with the less-restrictive confidential classification. If Conner is not an employee of Patheon (i.e., the actual party named here as the party defendant), then he may not see the materials even if they are downgraded from highly confidential to confidential. Patheon describes Conner as an "in-house lawyer" who is entitled to see confidential materials, but Procaps says otherwise, noting that Conner is actually an employee of a different entity containing the name Patheon. This same conclusion applies to Sherbet, who appears to be a Patheon employee (since Procaps did not advise to the contrary, as it did for Conner).\
This appears to be a straightforward issue which seemingly should not trigger a dispute. Conner either is or is not an employee of Patheon, Inc. That sounds like a simple question to answer. But few things in this case have been simple and easy.\
If Conner is an employee, then it appears as though he (and Sherbet) would be eligible to review the materials once they are redacted and downgraded. The Court understands that Procaps is concerned because Conner and Sherbet are also in-house attorneys with DPx, a non-party. Apparently, the parties never contemplated a scenario where an employee eligible to review a confidential document wears a second hat as an employee or officer of another entity which is not eligible to review the material. Thus, if Conner and Sherbet are Patheon employees, then they would be able to review confidential documents under one paragraph but would arguably be prevented from accessing the material under another provision (because they also work for an ineligible third party).\
Although there is an ambiguity concerning the status of an employee who also is associated with an ineligible third party, Patheon notes that Procaps' dual-role theory is inconsistent because it would mean that some of Procaps' principals would be ineligible to review confidential materials even though they too are associated with other entities. Patheon represented that two Procaps principals, Alvaro [*13] Franco and Ruben Minski, "have been reviewing confidential documents in this case since they were first produced." [ECF No. 815, p. 3].\
Procaps cannot have it both ways. If Minski and Franco are reviewing Patheon's confidential documents even though they are "associated with third parties," then Patheon employees cannot be excluded from review because of their third party association.\
There may be two other possibilities which would eliminate this specific dispute, however: First, Procaps could substantially redact the interrogatory answer and its expert report -- so that the materials no longer contain any type of restriction and would not have any designation attached to them. Second, for purposes of facilitating a meaningful mediation, Procaps could agree (with Patheon's agreement that the position would not waive Procaps' ability to rely on the protections in the stipulated order) that Conner and Sherbet would be permitted to access these materials, as long as they agreed to not share the information with anyone not otherwise afforded access. The Undersigned is not ordering the parties to select one of these alternatives, nor am I encouraging them to adopt one of these options.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Attorney's Fees
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Because Procaps' use of the highly confidential designation was significantly incorrect and over-inclusive on a grand scale, an attorney's fees award is appropriate under the fee-shifting mechanism of Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 37 . See THK Am., Inc., 157 F.R.D. 637 ; Ullico, 237 F.R.D. 314 ; Del Campo, [2007 BL 143157], 2007 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 87150 , 2007 WL 3306496 ; Brown, [2014 BL 188581], 2014 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 90123 , 2014 WL 2987051 . The question now, of course, is to determine the amount.\
Procaps' response included a declaration from its lead trial counsel, disclosing (at the Court's request) that it incurred $5,491 litigating the over-designation issue. The declaration included a section for time incurred in connection with the dispute over the interrogatory answers and expert report.\
Patheon's fees in connection with the over-designation issue necessarily includes time not incurred by Procaps, because it includes time since Procaps filed its response. Therefore, the Court would expect that Patheon's fees might exceed Procaps' fees.\
Patheon advised the Court that it incurred $3,293 in costs for its e-discovery vendor to perform the OCR review purportedly necessitated by Procaps' methodology, which apparently prevented a meaningful review by Patheon without further expert involvement. Patheon also represented that it incurred $31,091.70 in fees. In total, Patheon seeks $34,385.69. The Undersigned concludes that a $25,000 award is appropriate. The Undersigned is not including Patheon's costs request in the award and is reducing the fees award (even though Patheon represents that it adopted an "extremely conservative approach" and "resolved any doubt in favor of Procaps").\
If either party (or either law firm) objects to either the fees entitlement decision entered here or to the amount of fees required to be paid by this Order, then it may file a notice requesting a hearing and the Court will promptly schedule a hearing. If such a hearing were to take place, the law firms would be required to produce their billing [*14] records for the legal services provided during the time period at issue. Of course, the time incurred in connection with the hearing itself would either be subtracted from, or added to, the fees award (assuming that the entitlement decision did not change).\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Conclusion
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Procaps shall have until July 30, 2015 at 5:00 p.m. EST to re-review and re-designate its forensically-produced materials. Procaps shall provide written notice of any new designations to Patheon by this deadline. These designations must be exercised in good faith. If the Court later determines that Procaps' second round of designations was not performed in good faith, then the Court will entertain a motion for other, more-severe sanctions. Any document not re-designated as either "confidential" or "highly confidential" may be used by Patheon for any purpose related to this case. For documents which Procaps re-designates, Patheon may only use them to the extent permitted by the Stipulated Confidentiality Order.\
Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 37 permits a fees award to be entered against the party, its counsel or both. The Undersigned finds that it would be inappropriate and unfair to impose the fees award against Procaps itself, as the over-designation is its counsel's responsibility. Therefore, the fees award will be against only Procaps' attorneys. The Court assumes that many of Procaps' outside attorneys were involved to some extent in the review of the designations initially placed on the materials by the vendor the law firm retained. The Undersigned does not want to use valuable time on a fact-finding mission designed to pinpoint which specific attorneys were responsible for what portion of the activities involved in the over-designation, and I do not want to create satellite litigation on this collateral issue. Therefore, Procaps' law firm will internally determine which attorneys should bear financial responsibility for the fees award, but the actual payment may come from the firm itself and the declaration need not specifically disclose how the firm decided to allocate financial responsibility.5 \
Procaps' counsel shall pay Patheon the attorney's fees reimbursement award by August 10, 2015. Procaps' counsel shall, within three days of payment, submit to the Court's efile inbox an affidavit or declaration confirming that payment was made.\
Procaps' counsel may not, either directly or indirectly, pass on this fees award to its client.\
DONE AND ORDERED in Chambers, in Miami, Florida, July 20, 2015.\
/s/ Jonathan Goodman\
Jonathan Goodman\
UNITED STATES MAGISTRATE JUDGE
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0  \uc0\u8232 \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 1\
From the "Christine McVie" (Warner Bros., 1984) album, the second solo effort by the Fleetwood Mac vocalist and keyboardist.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 2\
As noted above, Patheon has already flagged the possibility that mediation might be adversely affected if Conner cannot see confidential information. It did not, however, specifically mention that mediation might be affected if Sherbet could not review confidential information.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 3\
Procaps itself noted the burdens associated with "highly confidential" or AEO designations when it was negotiating the terms of the stipulated order.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 4\
Because Patheon does not have much time to arrange for its employees to review the material which Procaps re-designates as only confidential (or which is not re-designated at all) before the upcoming mediation and depositions, time is of the essence. The July 30 deadline provides for significantly more than the 5 days suggested in Patheon's motion, but Procaps must strictly comply with it. Any information not re-designated as "highly confidential" by 5:00 p.m. on Thursday, July 30, may be reviewed by eligible Patheon employees.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 5\
The Undersigned does not consider a Rule 37(a)(5)(A) expense-shifting award to be a sanction, or the imposition of discipline, or an indication that anyone acted in bad faith. Rather, it is merely a consequence of taking certain unsuccessful discovery positions, such as indiscriminately designating 95% of a large-scale document production as "highly confidential." Thus, this Order would not require Procaps' counsel to answer "yes" if ever asked (e.g., by a prospective employer, by an insurance carrier, by a judicial nominating commission, by a client, or by a prospective client) if he or she had ever been sanctioned or disciplined.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb566\sa1133\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0          
\f0\fs42 General Information\

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 Judge(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Jonathan Goodman\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Related Docket(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 1:12-cv-24356 (S.D. Fla.);\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Topic(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Civil Procedure\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Date Filed\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 2015-07-20 00:00:00\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Parties\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 PROCAPS S.A., Plaintiff, v. PATHEON INC., Defendant.\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Court\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 United States District Court for the Southern District of Florida\cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\li674\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\fs20 \cf0 Pagination \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 *
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 F. Supp. 2d 
\f1\fs24 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 **
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 BL
\f1\fs24 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\li674\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 United States District Court, S.D. Florida. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Timothy FINNERTY, Plaintiff, v. STIEFEL LABORATORIES, INC., et al., Defendants. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Case No. 09-21871-CIV. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 October 16, 2012. [*1318] \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
Beth-Ann Ellenberg Krimsky, Ruden McClosky Smith Schuster & Russell, Fort Lauderdale, FL, Norman S. Segall, Segall/Gordich P.A., Miami, FL, Melissa Alagna, Ruden McClosky Smith Schuster & Russell, Miami, FL, for Plaintiffs. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Hilarie Bass, Greenberg Traurig, Miami, FL, Monica Janette Chaplin, Greenberg Traurig, P.A., Miami, FL, Lindsey Camp Edelmann, Greenberg Traurig LLP, Atlanta, GA, Peter N. Hall, Greenberg Traurig, LLP, Atlanta, GA, Todd D. Wozniak, Greenberg Traurig, Atlanta, GA, Deborah Poore FitzGerald, Walton Lantaff Schroeder & Carson, Fort Lauderdale, FL, for Defendants. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 ORDER DENYING TAXATION OF COSTS FOR ELECTRONIC DATABASE 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\
JAMES LAWRENCE KING, District Judge. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\
THIS MATTER comes before the Court upon Greenspoon Marder P.A.'s Bill of Costs (DE #547), filed August 8, 2012, and Supplement to Its Request to Recover Costs Related to the Creation and Use of an Electronic Database Under 28 U.S.C. 1920(4) (DE #570), filed September 10, 2012. Therein, Greenspoon Marder, an assignee of Plaintiffs former counsel, recites $8,017.51 in costs that Defendant agreed to be taxed and also argues that it should be permitted to tax Defendants for the $73,764.82 related to creating and maintaining an electronic database that Plaintiffs former counsel used to manage documents it requested from Defendants in the above-styled action. For the reasons discussed below, the Court finds that the motion must be granted as to the agreed upon costs and denied as to costs related to the electronic database. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 I. BACKGROUND
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 This case has a long and involved procedural history. The original Complaint (DE #1) was filed as a class action on July 6, 2009 and was dismissed in part, upon Defendants' motion (DE #21), on January 4, 2010. (DE #43). Plaintiffs Amended Complaint (DE #47), filed February 8, 2010, also was dismissed in part. (DE #69). Defendants then answered (DE #75) four of the seven counts in the Amended Complaints,[fn1] after which Plaintiffs moved for class certification. This Court denied class certification (DE #257) on July 21, 2011 and by November of that year, all Plaintiffs had been dismissed except Timothy Finnerty.[fn2] The remaining claims were bifurcated so that the first phase would involve a jury trial on the securities fraud claim. See (DE #390). Following a seven-day trial in May 2012, a jury found Defendants Stiefel Laboratories and Charles Stiefel liable for securities fraud and awarded damages to Finnerty of $[*1319] 1,502,484.90. See (DE #515). Final judgment was entered July 9, 2012, after which Plaintiffs attorneys sought to recover taxable costs under 28 U.S.C. \'a7 1920. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 What followed was "a series of contradictory and highly confusing documents regarding Bills of Costs." (DE #566). This in part stemmed from the fact that Plaintiff had been represented by Ruden McClosky ("Ruden") before the firm filed for bankruptcy and assigned its assets to Greenspoon Marder. Thereafter, Greenspoon Marder was not involved in the case. However, in the event that Plaintiff prevailed, Greenspoon Marder held a charging lien against Defendant as an assignee of Plaintiffs former counsel. See (DE #532). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 To simplify the multitude of confusing filings, the Court ordered counsel to confer pursuant to Local Rule 7.3(c). (DE #566). Two weeks later, on September 5, 2012, counsel filed a Joint Notice of Status Regarding Bills of Costs Filed by Plaintiff and Plaintiffs Former Counsel. (DE #569). The joint notice indicated that Plaintiffs former counsel and current counsel and Defendants' counsel had resolved all but one issue [**2] in the various Bills of Costs.[fn3] The sole remaining issue was "whether costs incurred by Ruden in creating and maintaining an electronic database are properly taxable as "fees for exemplification" under 28 U.S.C. \'a7 1920(4)." (DE 569, \'b6 3). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Ruden had created the electronic database to manage 76,741 documents containing at least 1,830,477 pages. (Dec. Saulog, DE #570-1, \'b6 4). To build and populate the database, Ruden hired temporary paralegals and secretaries whose sole job was to input data and code documents by date, name, title, topic, and keywords. The coding made the documents searchable.  Id. at \'b6\'b6 4-7). The database creation and maintenance was overseen by Henry Saulog, then-in-house litigation database analyst for Ruden.[fn4] In his Declaration, Saulog asserts that "[o]ther than with this type of database management system, a production of this magnitude of over 1.8 million pages would have been more than untenable to realistically use and would have render their production virtually useless."  Id. at \'b6 6). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 In its supplemental brief now before this Court, Greenspoon Marder, as an assignee of Ruden, addresses both an agreed to amount of $8,017.51 for taxable costs and the outstanding issue of costs related to the electronic database. See (DE #569). As an initial matter, the Court approves the $8,017.51 taxation of costs, pursuant to the stipulated agreement between Greenspoon Marder and Defendants' counsel. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The Court now turns to whether Greenspoon Marder may recover $73,764.82 for costs related to the electronic database. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 II. DISCUSSION
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The prevailing party may tax costs against the losing party, as governed by 28 U.S.C. \'a7 1920. Taxable costs are distinct from attorneys fees, seeFed.R.Civ.Pro. 54(d), and are limited to the actual costs of litigation. Costs may only be taxed if they fit within one of six categories, including costs for exemplification and making copies. 28 U.S.C. \'a7 1920(4). These are the outer limits of taxable costs. Moreover, Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 54(d) provides the district court with "a power to decline to tax, as costs, the items enumerated in \'a7 1920." Crawford Fitting Co. v. J.T. Gibbons,Inc., 482 U.S. 437, 442 (1987); see also Loughan v. Firestone Tire & Rubber Co.[*1320] , 749 F.2d 1519, 1526 (11th Cir. 1985) ("In the exercise of sound discretion, trial courts are accorded great latitude in ascertaining taxable costs."). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 In 2008, Congress amended the text of Section 1920(4) for the first time[fn5] to allow for taxing of "fees for exemplification and the costs of making copies of any materials." This amendment was based on the increasing prevalence of electronic discovery in federal actions and an understanding that not all legally relevant documents existed in physical form only. SeeLG Electronics U.S.A., Inc., v. Whirlpool Corp., No. 08-C-0242, [2011 BL 270052], 2011 WL 5008425 at *6 n. 1 (N.D. 111. Oct. 20, 2011); Jardin v. DATAllegro, Inc., No. 08-CV-1462, [2011 BL 263249], 2011 WL 4835742, at *5 (S.D. Cal. Oct. 12, 2011). "This amendment to \'a7 1920(4) originated with a recommendation of the Judicial Conference Committee on Court Administration and Case Management." Race Tires America, Inc. v. Hoosier Racing Tire Corp., 674 F.3d 158, 165 (3d Cir. 2012). The committee considered "whether the list of taxable costs should be amended to include expenses associated with [**3] new courtroom technologies" but determined that such breadth "might well go beyond the intended scope of the statute." Judicial Conference of the U.S., Report ofthe Proceedings of the Judicial Conference of the United States 9-10 (Mar. 18, 2003). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 There has been general agreement that digital copies\'97e.g. transmittable duplicate versions, such as TIFF and PDF files\'97are the "21st Century equivalent of making copies." CBT Flint Partners, LLC v. Return Path, Inc., 676 F.Supp.2d 1376, 1381 (N.D. Ga. 2009) rev'd on other grounds 654 F.3d 1353(Fed. Cir. 2011). However, the scope of "exemplification and costs" in the digital age is unclear in this circuit and most others. "[E]ven though it is undisputed that electronic discovery costs are available under Section 1920(4), there is scant legal authority in this circuit and district giving litigants guidance in seeking those costs under Rule 54(d)(1) and Section 1920(4)." LG Electronics, [2011 BL 270052], 2011 WL 5008425 at *8. Some courts have interpreted Section 1920 broadly. See, e.g., Taniguchi v.Kan Pacific Saipan, Ltd., 633 F.3d 1218, 1221 (9th Cir. 2011) ("District courts are free to interpret the meaning of the cast of categories listed within \'a7 1920."). Others have read into the statute a much narrower scope. See Graphic Packaging Intern., Inc. v. C.W. Zumbiel Co., No. 3:10-cv-891-J-37, [2012 BL 178267], 2012 WL 2912534 (M.D. Fla. July 16, 2012) (rejecting a motion to tax costs for preparing electronic copies of exhibits, with digital enhancements, that were projected on screens during a patent infringement trial because "the statute is to be interpreted according to its plain language"). Like most circuits, the Eleventh Circuit has yet to address the scope of exemplification and the costs of making copies in the digital age. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The question in this case is even more specific: whether the prevailing party may tax the cost related to an electronic database created solely for that party's benefit or convenience. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 When an electronic database has been built for the purpose of responding to discovery requests, some courts have deemed that a taxable cost.[fn6] However, [*1321]many more courts have denied such recovery.[fn7]"Though the statute has been broadened to allow for copying materials as 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 opposed to just papers, it is not so broad as to cover general electronic discovery costs that precede copying or scanning of materials." EolasTechnologies Inc. v. Adobe Systems, Inc., \'97 F.Supp.2d \'97, 2012 WL 4092586 at *3, (E.D. Texas July 19, 2012). The Third Circuit was particularly critical of the rationale permitting taxing of such costs: 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The decisions that allow taxation of all, or essentially all, electronic discovery consultant charges, such as the District Court's ruling in this case, are untethered from the statutory mooring. Section 1920(4) does not state that all steps that lead up to the production of copies of materials are taxable. It does not authorize taxation merely because today's technology requires technical expertise not ordinarily possessed by the typical legal professional. It does not say that activities that encourage cost savings may be taxed. Section 1920(4) authorizes awarding only the cost of making copies. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Race Tires, 614 F.3d at 169.
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Since the 2008 amendment [**4] to Section 1920(4), no courts apparently have permitted a prevailing party to recover the expenses that Greenspoon Marder seeks to tax. Ruden, as Plaintiffs former counsel, created and maintained the electronic database solely for its own benefit and not for the purpose of facilitating responses to discovery requests. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 When confronted with a factually similar motion for costs, a district court in the Eastern District of Virginia denied the motion because the movant had not demonstrated that its searchable electronic database was for anything more than the convenience of the parties. Fells v. Virginia Dept.of Tramp., 605 F.Supp.2d 740 (E.D. Va. 2009). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Regardless of whether scanning documents should be viewed as copying materials, the court does not find that this category of taxable costs includes defendant's techniques of processing records, extracting data, and converting files, which served to create searchable documents, rather than merely reproduce paper documents in electronic form. By refusing to expand the traditional notion of "copying" to include a burgeoning array of electronic discovery techniques, the court recognizes the Supreme Court's precept that district courts may decline to tax costs enumerated in \'a7 1920, but cannot award costs not enumerated under \'a7 1920. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Id. at 743-44 (citation omitted). Significantly, the Fells court articulated the distinction between making digital copies and creating a new electronic database. The former fits within taxable costs under Section 1920(4); the latter goes well beyond statutory intent. As noted above, Congress considered a broader expansion when amending the statute but explicitly elected for a narrow expansion that covers only exemplification and costs of copies\'97not [*1322]the creation of new, modified, or enhanced digital files. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 As contrary support, Greenspoon Marder relies heavily on an opinion from within this district. In Klaman v. Freedoms Watch, Inc., Case No. 07-CV-22433, 2008 WL 4194881 (S.D. Fla. Sept. 12, 2008), the Honorable Paul C. Huck affirmed a portion of a magistrate's report that stated: "Costs for creating a litigation database, trial evidence presentation, and copies are recoverable under 28 U.S.C. \'a7 1920(4) where it is necessary due to the extreme complexity of the case and the organization of millions of documents." The magistrate acknowledged that "[f]hese costs are not expressly outlined by 28 U.S.C. \'a7 1920," but cited to an anomalous case from within another circuit for support. See id. (citing Lockheed Martin IdahoTechs. Co. v. Lockheed Martin Advanced Environmental Sys., Inc., CV-98-316-E, [2006 BL 82259], 2006 WL 2095875 (D. Idaho July 27, 2006)). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The Court finds the rationale in Klayman unpersuasive. First, Judge Huck did not state that the creation of an electronic database would always be a taxable costs; indeed, he subsequently denied taxing such costs in Klaymanbecause "the defendants hired experts at a huge hourly cost" to do work that would otherwise "be performed by paralegals and associate attorneys and would not be compensable as costs under 28 U.S.C. \'a7 1920." 2008 WL 5111293at *2 (S.D. Fla. Dec. 8, 2008). Second, it is unclear from the facts of Klayman the [**5] type of database the defendants had built or the type that Judge Huck would approve as taxable. Third, the Klayman opinions did not take into consideration the 2008 amendment to Section 1920(4); indeed, the partial affirmance of the magistrates report, which Greenspoon Marder relies heavily on, was entered one month beforeCongress amended Section 1920(4). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 As for Lockheed, which also was decided before the 2008 amendment, the Court respectfully disagrees with the opinion that Section 1920(4) allows the prevailing party to tax costs if "it saved immense time for counsel who otherwise would have to sift through the documents by hand." [2006 BL 82259], 2006 WL 2095875 at *2. The statute enumerating taxable fees and costs is not about making an attorney's job easier. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The other cases cited by Greenspoon Marder, see (DE #570, pp. 4-5), are factually inapposite. None involved the creation of an electronic database for the convenience of the party seeking to tax the cost nor an attempt to tax the cost of temporary employees who coded files to make the database searchable. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Moreover, it is the opinion of this Court that, as noted above, Congress's amendment of Section 1920(4) did not expand taxable costs beyond digital copying to the creation of new, modified, or enhanced digital files. A prevailing party may tax the costs of making digital copies, but "Section 1920(4) does not state that all steps that lead up to the production of copies of materials are taxable." Race Tires, 61A F.3d at 169. A holding to the contrary would be "untethered from the statutory mooring," id., and would muddy the distinction between taxable costs, which are generally available to the prevailing party, and attorneys fees, which generally are not available under absent a fee-shifting agreement or statute.[fn8]
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 III. CONCLUSION
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Accordingly, after careful consideration and the Court being otherwise fully advised, it is hereby ORDERED, ADJUDGED[*1323] , and DECREED that Greenspoon Marder P.A.'s Bill of Costs (DE #547) and Supplement to Its Request to Recover Costs Related to the Creation and Use of an Electronic Database Under 28 U.S.C. 1920(4) (DE #570)be, and are hereby, GRANTED in part and DENIED in part.Greenspoon Marder shall recover from Defendants the agreed upon amount of $8,017.51. The portion of Greenspoon Marder's motion seeking to tax the costs of creating and maintaining the electronic database be, and is hereby, DENIED.
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn1] Counts 1-3 alleged ERISA violations; Count 4 alleged securities fraud in violation of the Securities Exchange Act. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn2] To reflect this change, the Court entered an Order amending the case caption on November 7, 2011. (DE #416). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn3] The Court approved the taxation of costs by Plaintiffs current counsel on September 11, 2012. (DE #572). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn4] Greenspoon Marder, which now employs Saulog in a similar position, does not seek to recover for his time. See (DE #574, p. 2). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn5] The statute was enacted in 1948. June 25, 1948, c. 646, 62 Stat. 955. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn6] See CBTFlint Partners, LLC v. Return Path, Inc., 676 F.Supp.2d 1376, 1381 (N.D. Ga. 2009) ("The services are certainly necessary in the electronic age. The enormous burden and expense of electronic discovery are well known. Taxation of these costs will encourage litigants to exercise restraint in burdening the opposing party with the huge cost of unlimited demands for electronic discovery."); Jardin, [2011 BL 263249], 2011 WL 4835742 at *8 ("[W]here ... a third-party technician is engaged to perform duties limited to technical issues related to the physical production of information, related costs are recoverable under \'a7 1920."). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn7] Eolas Technologies Inc. v. Adobe Systems, Inc., \'97 F.Supp.2d \'97, 2012 WL 4092586 at *3, (E.D. Texas July 19, 2012) (rejecting a bill "in excess of $2 million for document collection, processing, and hosting[]" as not recoverable under \'a7 1920); see also Race Tires, 61A F.3d at 170 (citing Mann v. Heckler & Koch Defense, Inc., No. L08-CV-611, [2011 BL 113305], 2011 WL 1599580, at *9 (E.D. Va. Apr. 28, 2011); In re Scientific-Atlanta, Inc. Securities Litigation, No. L01-CV-1950, 2011 WL 2671296, at *1 (N.D. Ga. July 6, 2011); In re Fast Memory Erase v. Spansion Inc.. No. 3-10-CV-0481. 2010 WL 5093945. *4 (N.D. Tex. Nov. 10, 2010)). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn8] See Alyeska Pipeline Service Co. v. Wilderness Society, 421 U.S. 240(1975) (discussing the America rule for attorneys fees). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb566\sa1133\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0          
\f0\fs42 General Information\

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 Judge(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 JAMES LAWRENCE KING\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Related Docket(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 1:09-cv-21871 (S.D. Fla.);\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Topic(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Civil Procedure\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Date Filed\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 2012-10-16 00:00:00\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Parties\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Timothy FINNERTY, Plaintiff, v. STIEFEL LABORATORIES, INC., et al., Defendants.\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Case Type\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 SO\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Court\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 United States District Court for the Southern District of Florida\cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\li674\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\fs20 \cf0 Pagination \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 *
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 BL
\f1\fs24 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\li674\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Majority Opinion > 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 United States District Court for the Middle District of Florida, Jacksonville Division\
Case No: 3:09-cv-13723\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0  \uc0\u8232 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Cheryl Searcy, as Personal Representative of the Estate of Carol LaSard, Plaintiff,
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 v.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, and Philip Morris USA, Inc., Defendants.
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0  \uc0\u8232 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb108\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 ORDER DENYING DEFENDANTS' RENEWED MOTIONS FOR JUDGMENT AS A MATTER OF LAW \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 THIS CAUSE came before the Court upon Defendant Philip Morris USA, Inc.'s Renewed Motion for Judgment as a Matter of Law and, in the Alternative, for a New Trial Based on Insufficient Evidence of Brand Usage (ECF No. 273); Defendants' Renewed Motion for Judgment as a Matter of Law on Plaintiff's Fraudulent Concealment and Conspiracy Claims or, in the Alternative, for a New Trial (ECF No. 274); and Defendants' Renewed Motion for Judgment as a Matter of Law or, in the Alternative, for a New Trial (ECF No. 275). Plaintiff responded [277], [278], [279]. These matters are therefore ripe for review. UPON CONSIDERATION of the Motions, Responses, the pertinent portions of the record, and being otherwise fully advised in the premises, this Court enters the following Order.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 I. BACKGROUND 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 On March 25, 2013, this Court commenced a jury trial in the above-styled action. The jury returned a verdict on April 1, 2013, finding for Plaintiff on all her tort claims (negligence, strict liability, fraudulent concealment, conspiracy to fraudulently conceal) and awarding Plaintiff $6,000,000.00 in compensatory damages. See Jury Verdict, (ECF No. 251). Phase II of the trial then commenced, and the jury was read instructions on punitive damages. The jury returned a verdict on punitive damages, finding that $10,000,000.00 in punitive damages should be assessed against each Defendant. See Jury Verdict (Phase II), (ECF No. 253). On June 5, 2013, following briefing from the Parties, this Court entered an Order on the Proper Form of Judgment to Be Entered in this Case (ECF No. 267), finding that Defendants are jointly and severally liable for the total amount of compensatory damages found by the jury, and each liable for the amount of punitive damages assessed against them. Final Judgment (ECF No. 268) was entered that same day.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 II. DISCUSSION 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Pursuant to Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 50(b) , Defendants now renew their motions for judgment as a matter of law. Under Rule 50 , "[a] party's motion for judgment as a matter of law can be granted at the close of evidence or, if timely renewed, after the jury has returned its verdict, as long as 'there is no legally sufficient evidentiary basis for a reasonable jury to find'" for the non-moving party. Chaney v. City of Orlando, Fla., 483 F.3d 1221, 1227 (11th Cir. 2007) (quoting Lipphardt v. Durango Steakhouse of Brandon, Inc., 267 F.3d 1183, 1186 (11th Cir. 2001) (citing Fed. R. Civ. P. 50 )). Judgment as a matter of law should only be granted "when there is no legally sufficient evidentiary basis for a reasonable jury to find for the party on that issue." Cleveland v. Home Shopping Network, Inc., 369 F.3d 1189, 1192 (11th Cir. 2004); see also Arthur Pew Constr. Co. v. Lipscomb, 965 F.2d 1559, 1563 (11th Cir. 1992) (stating that the "usual inquiry" under Rule 50 is "sufficiency, i.e. whether the evidence was sufficient to submit [the issue] to the jury").\
"[I]n ruling on a party's renewed motion under Rule 50(b) after the jury has rendered a verdict, a court's sole consideration of the jury verdict is to assess whether that verdict is supported by sufficient evidence." Chaney, 483 F.3d at 1227 (citing Lipphardt, 267 F.3d at 1186 ; Arthur Pew, 965 F.2d at 1563 ). When reviewing a Rule 50(b) motion, the court must look at the evidence [*2] in the record and draw all inferences in favor of the non-moving party. Cleveland, 369 F.3d at 1192-93 (citing Reeves v. Sanderson Plumbing Products, 530 U.S. 133, 148-151 (2000)). "Credibility determinations, the weighing of the evidence, and the drawing of legitimate inferences from the facts are jury functions, not those of a judge." Id. (quoting Reeves, 530 U.S. at 150 ). A party may join a renewed motion for judgment as a matter of law, with a motion for a new trial under Rule 59 in the alternative. Fed. R. Civ. P. 50(b) . A motion for a new trial should be granted only when "the verdict is against the clear weight of the evidence or will result in a miscarriage of justice." Lipphardt, 267 F.3d at 1186 (quoting Hewitt v. B.F. Goodrich Co., 732 F.2d 1554, 1556 (11th Cir. 1984)).\
\pard\pardeftab720\li512\ri512\sa135\partightenfactor0
\cf0 A. Defendant Philip Morris USA, Inc.'s Renewed Motion for Judgment as a Matter of Law and, in the Alternative, for a New Trial Based on Insufficient Evidence of Brand Usage \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 This Court turns first to the Renewed Motion for Judgment as a Matter of Law filed by Defendant Philip Morris USA, Inc. ("PM USA"). Therein, PM USA argues that is is entitled to judgment as a matter of law because Plaintiff did not proffer sufficient proof to allow a reasonable jury to conclude that PM USA cigarettes were a legal cause of Carol LaSard's ("LaSard") death. Def.'s Renewed Mot., at 1 (ECF No. 273). Specifically, PM USA maintains (1) Plaintiff provided insufficient evidence to allow a jury to determine the quantity of PM USA cigarettes LaSard smoked, and (2) there is no evidence that LaSard smoked PM USA brand cigarettes before 1981, the date by which Plaintiff's expert witnesses conceded it became more likely than not that LaSard would still have developed lung cancer even if she had quit smoking at that time. Id. Plaintiff disagrees, contending that PM USA cannot meet its heavy burden to show no legally sufficient evidentiary basis for the jury's verdict against it. Resp., at 1 (ECF No. 277).\
In this trial, Plaintiff presented the jury with evidence regarding LaSard's use of cigarettes manufactured by PM USA, expert testimony regarding the causation of LaSard's lung cancer, expert testimony regarding LaSard's addiction to cigarettes, and fact witness testimony that LaSard smoked PM USA's so-called "health" and "light" cigarettes, thinking that they were safer and would help her quit smoking. See, e.g. Mar. 25, 2013 Trial Tr., at 44:21-23, 46:7-16 (ECF No. 277-1); Mar. 28, 2013 Trial Tr., at at 31:3-8 (ECF No. 277-6); Mar. 27 Trial Tr., at 70:3-22 (ECF No. 277-4); Mar. 27 Trial Tr., at 134:20-135:5 (ECF No. 277-5). Additionally, Plaintiff also introduced into evidence the 2010 Surgeon General Report, which includes the conclusion: "The evidence on the mechanisms by which smoking causes disease indicates that there is no risk-free level of exposure to tobacco smoke." Report, at 9 (ECF No. 277-3).\
Both LaSard's daughter and former son-in-law testified that she smoked multiple PM USA brands. James Searcy, LaSard's former son-in-law, testified that LaSard smoked about a pack a day and specifically referenced her smoking the PM USA brands Benson & Hedges, Virginia Slims, and Merit. See Mar. 27, 2013 Trial Tr., at 67:25-68:7 (ECF No. 277-4). Cheryl Searcy, LaSard's daughter, also stated that her mother smoked the PM USA brand Merit on a regular basis. See Mar. 27, 2013 Trial Tr., at 134:4-6 (ECF No. 277-5). PM USA's contention that the testimony on which [*3] brands LaSard smoked and when was purely speculative is without merit.1 Def.'s Renewed Mot., at 4.\
One of Plaintiff's expert witnesses, Dr. David Burns, a pulmonologist who has worked for decades with the Surgeon General's Office and other agencies, testified unequivocally that PM USA cigarettes caused LaSard's lung cancer. See Mar. 25, 2013 Trial Tr., at 44:21-23 (ECF No. 277-1). PM USA did not rebut this assertion by naming an expert to testify that the use of PM USA cigarettes was insufficient to contribute substantially to the plaintiff's illness, which PM USA has done in other Engle progency cases. See Resp., at 5, n. 1; Defense Expert Reports in Other Cases (ECF No. 277-2). Another expert witness, Dr. Michael Cummings, who specializes in nicotine addiction research, testified that LaSard was addicted to PM USA cigarettes, that the PM USA brand low-nicotine cigarettes LaSard smoked were engineered to deliver an addictive dose of nicotine, and that those specifically designed low-nicotine cigarettes did maintain and sustain LaSard's addiction. See Mar. 28, 2013 Trial Tr., at at 31:3-8, 124:4-7, 133:1-11 (ECF No. 277-6). Based on this evidence, a reasonable jury could find that PM USA's cigarettes were a legal cause of LaSard's death.\
Additionally, the jury's specific findings here were not against the great weight of the evidence such that a new trial should be ordered. After hearing testimony from Plaintiff and Defendants, including the testimony discussed above, and being instructed by this Court, the jury returned a verdict finding, among other things, that LaSard was addicted to cigarettes, that LaSard's addiction was a legal cause of her lung cancer and death, and that smoking cigarettes manufacted by PM USA was a legal cause of LaSard's lung cancer and death. See Jury Verdict, at 1-2 (ECF No. 251). The jury apportioned 40% of fault that was a legal cause of LaSard's death to LaSard herself, 30% to Reynolds, and 30% to PM USA. See id. at 3. Here, due to the testimony presented, there was sufficient evidence for the jury to conclude that LaSard smoked and was addicted to cigarettes manufactured by PM USA and that her smoking those cigarettes caused her lung cancer and death. Accordingly, PM USA's Renewed Motion for Judgment as a Matter of Law must be denied.\
\pard\pardeftab720\li512\ri512\sa135\partightenfactor0
\cf0 B. Defendants' Renewed Motion for Judgment as a Matter of Law on Plaintiff's Fraudulent Concealment and Conspiracy Claims or, in the Alternative, for a New Trial \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Defendants also argue that they are entitled to judgment as a matter of law, or at least a new trial, on Plaintiff's claims for fraudulent concealment and conspiracy because Plaintiff failed to meet her burden of proof on those claims. See generally Defs.' Renewed Mot. (ECF No. 274). Defendants incorporate the arguments set forth in their other post-trial motions as if fully set forth in the instant Motion. Id. at 1, n.1. Plaintiff responds that Defendants seek to set aside the jury's verdict by cherry-picking record excerpts, ignoring Plaintiff's ample evidence, and asking the Court to improperly draw all inferences in favor of Defendants. Resp., at 1 (ECF No. 278).\
Defendants' main [*4] argument is that Plaintiff failed to provide evidence on the element of detrimental reliance. Detrimental reliance is an essential element of fraudulent concealment under Florida law. See Philip Morris USA, Inc. v. Naugle, 103 So.3d 944, 947 (Fla. Dist. Ct. App. 2012) ("A claim of fraudulent misrepresentation and/or concealment requires proof of detrimental reliance on a material misrepresentation."). "If a plaintiff claims to be misled, but cannot demonstrate a causal connection between the defendant's conduct and the plaintiff's misapprehension, the plaintiff cannot recover." Id. (quoting Humana, Inc. v. Castillo, 728 So.2d 261, 265 (Fla. Dist. Ct. App. 1999)). Nevertheless, "it is immaterial whether [the statement] passes through a direct or circuitous channel in reaching [the representee], provided it be made with the intent that it shall reach him and be acted on by the injured party." Refined Sugars Inc. v. Southern Commodity Corp., 709 F. Supp. 1117 (S.D. Fla. 1988) (quoting Harrel v. Branson, 344 So. 2d 604, 606 (Fla. Dist. Ct. App. 1977)).\
Defendants' arguments are unavailing. The Engle findings "preclusively establish the Tobacco Companies engaged in a conspiracy to conceal or omit information regarding the health effects of cigarettes and their addictive nature with the intention that smokers and the public would rely on the information to their detriment." Philip Morris USA, Inc. et al. v. Putney, ___ So.3d ___ , Case Nos. 4D10-3606 , 4D10-5244 , [117 SO. 3D 798], 2013 WL 2494172 at *2 (Fla. Dist. Ct. App. June 12, 2013); see also Philip Morris USA, Inc. v. Naugle, 103 So.3d 944, 947 (Fla. Dist. Ct. App. 2012); Engle v. Liggett Group, Inc., 945 So.2d 1246 (Fla. 2006). As a number of Florida appellate courts have recognized, a jury verdict in favor of an Engle plaintiff on her fraudulent concealment and conspiracy claims is not unreasonable where the plaintiff presents sufficient evidence from which the jury could infer that the smoker relied "(1) on pervasive misleading advertising campaigns for cigarettes in general and (2) on the false controversy created by the tobacco industry during the years she smoked (aimed at creating doubt among smokers that cigarettes were hazardous to health) without the necessity of proving [the smoker] relied on any specific statement from a specific co-conspirator." Putney, [117 SO. 3D 798], 2013 WL 2494172 at *3; see also R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. v. Martin, 53 So.3d 1060 (Fla. Dist. Ct. App. 2010); Philip Morris USA, Inc. v. Kayton, 104 So.3d 1145 (Fla. Dist. Ct. App. 2012) (despite the plaintiff's inability to recall a specific statement by an Engle conspirator, her testimony that relied on billboard and magazine advertising was sufficient to deny a post-trial motion for directed verdict); Philip Morris USA Inc. v. Cohen, 102 So.3d 11, 14 n. 2 (Fla. Dist. Ct. App. 2012); R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. v. Webb, 93 So.3d 331 (Fla. Dist. Ct. App. 2012).\
This case is similar to Martin, which remains good law in Florida and continues to be relied upon by Florida appellate courts, despite Defendants' disagreement with the holding.2 In Martin, the Court rejected the tobacco company defendant's argument that plaintiff failed to prove the reliance element of her fraudulent concealment claim because she put on no direct evidence showing decedent relied on information put out by the tobacco companies omitting scientific findings on the harmful effects of smoking. Martin, 53 So.3d at 1069 . The Court ruled that there was abundant evidence "from which the jury could infer [decedent's] reliance on pervasive misleading advertising campaigns . . . for cigarettes in general, and on the false controversy created by the tobacco industry during the years [decedent] smoked aimed at creating doubt among smokers that cigarettes were hazardous to health." Id. at 1069-70 (citing Bullock v. Philip Morris, USA, Inc., 71 Cal. Rptr. 3d 775, 792 (Cal. Ct. App. 2008) (plaintiff was not required to prove actual reliance on tobacco company's specific misrepresentation where there was evidence that the company sustained a broad-based public campaign for many years disseminating [*5] misleading information and creating a controversy over the adverse health effects of smoking intending that current and potential smokers would rely on the misinformation); Burton v. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., 208 F. Supp. 2d 1187, 1203 (D. Kan. 2002) (jury could infer plaintiff's reliance where evidence showed [tobacco companies] "represented to the public that they would take it upon themselves to investigate and determine whether there were health consequences of smoking," but despite evidence of cigarettes' harmful effects [Reynolds] "engaged in a publicity campaign telling the public that whether there were negative health consequences from smoking remains an 'open question.'")).\
Here, Plaintiff's case is arguably even stronger than Martin, as Plaintiff did present direct evidence that decedent detrimentally relied upon information put out by Defendants omitting scientific findings on the harmful effects of smoking. The jury was presented with testimony from LaSard's daughter and former son-in-law that while LaSard may have known smoking could be harmful to her health, she turned to smoking low-tar and low-nicotine cigarettes because Defendants advertised them as safer and healthier than regular cigarettes. Plaintiff testified that her mother saw cigarette advertising on television and in magazines. Mar. 27, 2013 Trial Tr., at 53:12-54:11 (ECF No. 278-1). James and Cheryl Searcy both testified that LaSard smoked low-tar cigarettes because she thought they were safer and healthier. See Mar. 27, 2013 Trial Tr., at 70:3-22 (ECF No. 278-1); Mar. 26, 2013 Trial Tr., at 134:20-135:9 (ECF No. 278-2). James Searcy also testified that LaSard smoked low nictotine cigarettes because she thought she could use them to "wean herself off cigarettes gradually." Mar. 27, 2013 Trial Tr., at 70:20-22 (ECF No. 278-1).\
The jury was also presented with evidence from expert witnesses regarding the behavior of Defendants. The jury heard testimony that Defendants advertised low-tar cigarettes as healthier, even though they knew they were not, and marketed several brands, including the brands that Mrs. LaSard smoked (Merit, Carlton, and Doral), as "healthy cigarettes" because they contained less tar and nicotine. See Mar. 26, 2013 Trial Tr., at 13:13-14:20; 19:6-22:3 (ECF No. 278-4); Mar. 26, 2013 Trial Tr., at 134:4 (ECF No. 278-6). Dr. Burns also testified that Defendants developed and marketed low-tar and low-nicotine cigarettes to keep people from quitting. Mar. 26, 2013 Trial Tr., at 13:13-13:20 (ECF No. 278-4). Dr. Cummings explained that Defendants marketed low-nicotine cigarettes to "intercept" smokers like LaSard "before they would quit to give them an excuse and to keep smoking." Mar. 28, 2013 Trial Tr., at 120:3-10 (ECF No. 278-6). Furthermore, Dr. Cummings testified that the cigarette companies knew smokers were interpreting their advestising claims about low-nicotine cigaretes as meaning smokers were getting lower tar and nicotine when they were not. Mar. 28, 2013 Trial Tr., at 132:3-9 (ECF No. 278-6). Thus, the jury was presented with testimony that Defendants deliberately concealed from smokers, including LaSard, the information that low-tar and low-nicotine cigarettes were not [*6] any safer than other cigarettes and continued to market these "light" cigarettes as an alternative to quitting smoking. Mar. 26, 2013 Trial Tr., at 19:6-18 (ECF No. 278-4). Ultimately, the jury heard Dr. Burns offer his ultimate conclusion on whether the omissions and concealment of the Defendants were a cause or one of the causes of LaSard's lung cancer and death: "My conclusion is that their withholding of information was indeed a cause of her lung cancer by continuing her smoking behavior and therefore continuing her increase in risk." Mar. 26, 2013 Trial Tr., at 51:18-21 (ECF No. 278-4). Dr. Cummings also testified that Defendants' fraudulent concealment regarding low nicotine cigarettes substantially contributed to LaSard's addiction, and therefore, her continued smoking. Mar. 28, 2013 Trial Tr., at 133:23-134:2 (ECF No. 278-6).\
Accordingly, Plaintiff presented sufficient evidence for a jury to determine that LaSard detrimentally relied upon the misrepresentations and concealment of Defendants regarding the health risks associated with smoking. The jury could reasonably infer from all the record evidence that Defendants' fraudulent concealment and conspiracy were a substantial factor in LaSard's failure to quit smoking successfully in time to avoid injury. For the same reason, the jury's finding of reliance here was not against the great weight of the evidence. Accordingly, the jury's verdict should not be disturbed and Defendants' motion must fail.\
\pard\pardeftab720\li512\ri512\sa135\partightenfactor0
\cf0 C. Defendants' Renewed Motion for Judgment as a Matter of Law or, in the Alternative, for a New Trial \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Defendants' third motion is based upon the argument that the Engle findings could not be used to remove Plaintiff's burden to prove the elements of her claims and thus, Plaintiff failed to prove her claims. See generally Defs.' Renewed Mot. (ECF No. 275). Defendants concede that this Court has already considered and rejected the arguments contained in their Motion. See Defs.' Renewed Mot., at 1. Nevertheless, Defendants filed their Motion "in an abundance of caution to ensure that they are preserved for further review." Id. This Court agrees that the numerous arguments made in support of Defendants' Motion have been fully considered by and ruled upon by other judges of this district. See Waggoner v. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., 835 F.3d 1244 (M.D. Fla. 2011); Smith v. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., et al., Case No. 3:09-cv-10048-J-32JBT (M.D. Fla. Aug. 14, 2013). In a very recent opinion, the Eleventh Circuit also rejected Defendants' arguments. See Walker v. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., Nos. 12-13500 , 12-14731 , [2013 BL 236697], 2013 WL 4767017 at *1, 8-11 (11th Cir. Sept. 6, 2013). Thus, with this clear, binding precedent, Defendants' arguments must fail here. Plaintiff was entitled to rely upon the Engle findings to establish the conduct elements of her claim, consistent with due process and Florida preclusion law. See also Waggoner, 835 F.3d at 1279 ; Philip Morris USA, Inc. v. Douglas, 110 So. 3d 419 (Fla. 2013); R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. v. Jimmie Lee Brown, 70 So. 3d 707 (Fla. Dist. Ct. App. 2011); Martin, 53 So. 3d 1060 .\
As noted by all Parties, Defendants' Motion does not contain novel arguments. The Court in Smith addressed a similar situation, concluding "the Court believes that in ruling on [Defendant's] Rule 50(b) motion it is appropriate to rely on the Court's prior rulings on the same or similar arguments previously made by Reynolds." Smith, Case No. 3:09-cv-10048-J-32JBT, at 1. The Court in Smith subsequently found that Reynolds was not entitled to judgment as a matter of law and denied Reynolds' Rule 50(b) motion. This Court agrees that such a course of action [*7] is appropriate in the above-styled case. Accordingly, for purposes of the Rule 50(b) motion, this Court adopts the previously made findings of fact and conclusions of law as they were made in relation to Defendants' prior arguments on these same issues. Defendants fail to meet their burden that there was no legally sufficient evidentiary basis for the jury's verdict. This Court finds that Defendants are not entitled to judgment as a matter of law or a new trial on this basis either.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 III. CONCLUSION 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Based on the foregoing, it is hereby\
ORDERED AND ADJUDGED as follows: \
1. Defendant Philip Morris USA, Inc.'s Renewed Motion for Judgment as a Matter of Law and, in the Alternative, for a New Trial Based on Insufficient Evidence of Brand Usage (ECF No. 273) is DENIED.\uc0\u8232 \
2. Defendants' Renewed Motion for Judgment as a Matter of Law on Plaintiff's Fraudulent Concealment and Conspiracy Claims or, in the Alternative, for a New Trial (ECF No. 274) is DENIED.\uc0\u8232 \
3. Defendants' Renewed Motion for Judgment as a Matter of Law or, in the Alternative, for a New Trial (ECF No. 275) is DENIED.\uc0\u8232 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 DONE AND ORDERED in Chambers at Miami, Florida, this 11th day of September, 2013.\
K. MICHAEL MOORE\
UNITED STATES DISTRICT JUDGE\
cc: All counsel of record
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0  \uc0\u8232 \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 1 This Court notes that U.S. District Judge Marcia Howard in another Engle progeny case denied a similar motion for judgment as a matter of law. See Denton v. R.J. Reynolds, et al., Case No. 3:09-cv-13723-MMH-JBT, Aug. 1, 2012 Trial Tr., at 157:14-16 (ECF No. 277-9). Judge Howard noted that the expert's testimony that all of the cigarettes that decedent smoked contributed to her illness and the plaintiff's testimony that decedent smoked a certain brand of cigarettes for some period of time in the 1980s provided a legally sufficient basis for the jury to find for the nonmoving party. Id. at 156:14-23. Judge Howard noted that while the jury is free to accept or reject the testimonies of plaintiff's expert and plaintiff, "[T]he only conclusion can be that the plaintiff has presented sufficient evidence for reasonable and fair-minded persons, in the exercise of impartial judgment, to reach different conclusions." Id. at 157:1-14.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 2 Numerous decisions from Florida appellate courts have followed Martin since it was decided in December 2010. See, e.g. Putney, [117 SO. 3D 798], 2013 WL 2494172 ; Naugle, 103 So.3d 944 ; Webb, 93 So.3d 331 .\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb566\sa1133\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0          
\f0\fs42 General Information\

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 Related Docket(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 3:09-cv-13723 (M.D. Fla.);\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Topic(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Torts; Civil Procedure\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Industries\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Tobacco\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Date Filed\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 2013-09-11 00:00:00\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Parties\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Cheryl Searcy; Estate of Carol LaSard; Philip Morris USA, Inc.; R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Court\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 United States District Court for the Middle District of Florida\cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\li674\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\fs20 \cf0 Pagination \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 *
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 BL
\f1\fs24 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\li674\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 United States District Court, M.D. Florida \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 DIAMOND STATE INSURANCE COMPANY, Plaintiff, vs. BOYS' HOME ASSOCIATION, INC., et al., Defendants. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Case No. 3:13-cv-457-J-34PDB. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 September 16, 2014. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
ORDER 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\
Marcia Morales Howard, District Judge 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\
THIS CAUSE is before the Court on Defendant Boys' Home Association, Inc.'s Motion to Dismiss (Doc. 34; Motion) filed on November 19, 2013. Plaintiff Diamond State Insurance Company (Diamond State) filed a response in opposition to the Motion on December 6, 2013. See Plaintiff Diamond State Insurance Company's Response and Memorandum of Law in Opposition to Defendant Boys' Home Association, Inc.'s Motion to Dismiss [DE 34] (Doc. 36; Response). On January 13, 2014, with leave of Court, see Order (Doc. 43), Boys' Home Association Inc. (Boys' Home) filed a reply to Diamond State's Response. See Reply and Memorandum of Law in Opposition to Plaintiff Diamond State Insurance Company's Response to Defendant Boys' Home Association, Inc.'s Motion to Dismiss (Doc. 45; Reply). Accordingly, this matter is ripe for review. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 I. Background
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Diamond State initiated this action on April 26, 2013, see Complaint for Declaratory Relief and Demand for Jury Trial (Doc. 1), and filed the operative Amended Complaint for Declaratory Relief and Demand for Jury Trial (Doc. 8; Amended Complaint) on May 9, 2013. This case relates to a separate state court suit brought by P.LS. and B.P.S., minor children, by and through their parent and next friend Philippe Sabinus Sr (the Minor Children), in the Circuit Court of the Fourth Judicial Circuit in and for Duval County, case number 2012-CA-007765 (the Underlying Action). See Amended Complaint at 7-8, Ex. A. In the Underlying Action, the Minor Children assert a negligence claim against Defendants Family Support Services of North Florida (FSSNF), Mental Health Resource Center, Inc. (MHRC), and Renaissance Behavioral Health Systems, Inc. (RBHS). Id., Ex. A at 1, 6-8. Significantly, the Minor Children do not name Boys' Home in the Underlying Action. Id., Ex. A at 1. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 In this action, Diamond State requests a declaration concerning its obligations under a policy of liability insurance issued by Diamond State to Boys' Home, bearing Policy No. AGA0003680 (the Policy). See Amended Complaint, Ex. B. Boys' Home is the only Named Insured identified in the Policy. Id., Ex. B at 3. However, the Policy also contains an "Additional Insured Endorsement" which provides liability coverage to a person or organization, listed as "Blanket," with respect to "liability imposed or sought to be imposed on such additional insured because of an alleged act or omission of the Named Insured." Id., Ex. B at 72. According to Diamond State, FSSNF "provided notice to and sought coverage from" Diamond State after the Minor Children initiated the Underlying Action.  Id. at 4. In Count I of the Amended Complaint, Diamond State alleges that the Policy does not provide coverage for any insured with respect to the claims raised in the Underlying Action pursuant to certain exclusions in the Policy. See id. at 8. In addition, Diamond State contends that [*2] the claims asserted in the Underlying Action are not covered for any insured because, at the time the Policy application was signed, Boys' Home and/or FSSNF had knowledge of the relevant incidents and/or could have reasonably foreseen that the incidents might result in a claim or suit. Id. In Count II, Diamond State requests a declaration that the Policy provides no coverage for MHRC and RBHS because "MHRC and RBHS are not insureds under the Policy."  Id. at 9. Additionally, with respect to FSSNF, Diamond State alleges that "[t]he Policy applies to FSSNF only with respect to liability imposed or sought to be imposed on FSSNF because of an alleged act or omission of Boys' Home" and therefore, contends that FSSNF is not covered because the "Underlying Action does not impose or seek to impose liability on FSSNF because of an alleged act or omission" of Boys' Home. See id. Boys' Home moves to dismiss the claim against it and maintains that the Court cannot, or in its discretion, should not, exercise jurisdiction over that claim because Diamond State fails to allege an actual, justiciable controversy as to Boys' Home. Seegenerally Motion. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 II. Choice of Law
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 In the Amended Complaint, Diamond State seeks declaratory relief pursuant to Florida's Declaratory Judgment Act, Fla. Stat. \'a7 86.011, et seq. SeeAmended Complaint at 2. Although Boys' Home initially argues that the federal Declaratory Judgment Act, 28 U.S.C. \'a7 2201, applies in this diversity action, Boys' Home states in its Reply that it "agrees with Plaintiff's argument that ... Florida law may be invoked to bring a cause of action for declaratory judgment in this Court." See Reply at 1. Nonetheless, prior to addressing the merits of the Motion, the Court will first consider this choice-of-law issue. Various federal district courts within the state have come to differing conclusions regarding whether to apply federal or state law to a claim for declaratory judgment under Florida's Declaratory Judgment Act. Some courts have applied federal law. See Whispering Pines of RoyalPalm Beach Homeowners Ass'n, Inc. v. Comcast Cable Commc'ns, LLC, No. 13-80142-CIV, [2014 BL 171859], 2014 WL 2807641, at *2 (S.D. Fla. June 20, 2014) (finding that a state declaratory judgment claim will be construed as a federal declaratory judgment claim because the federal Declaratory Judgment Act is procedural, not substantive); Incredible Invs., LLC v. Fernandez-Rundle, 984 F.Supp.2d 1318, 1323-24 (S.D. Fla. 2013) (treating claim brought under Florida Declaratory Judgment Act as though it had been brought pursuant to federal Declaratory Judgment Act) (citing Nirvana Condo. Ass'n, Inc. v. QBEIns. Corp., 589 F.Supp.2d 1336, 1343 & n. 1 (S.D. Fla. 2008)); Hansen v. Am.Sec. Ins. Co., No. 8:12-cv-16-EAK-TBM, 2012 WL 4795645, at *2 (M.D. Fla. Oct. 9, 2012) (same); Vill. Square Condo. of Orlando, Inc. v. NationwideMut. Fire Ins. Co., No. 6:09-cv-1711-Orl-31DAB, [2009 BL 266737], 2009 WL 4899402, at *2 (M.D. Fla. Dec. 11, 2009); see also Townhouses of Highland Beach Condo. Ass'n,Inc. v. QBE Ins. Corp., 504 F.Supp.2d 1307, 1309-10 (S.D. Fla. 2007) (declining to dismiss claim for failure to specify under which Declaratory Judgment Act it was being brought, holding that federal law determines justiciability and appropriateness of rendering a declaratory judgment, [*3] while state law determines substantive rights and duties to the parties of the contract). Other courts have applied Florida law. See Vandenbrink v.Voneschen, No. 8:12-cv-897-T-30TBM, [2013 BL 25319], 2013 WL 360328, at *4 (M.D. Fla. Jan. 30, 2013) vacated, 542 F.App'x 728 (11th Cir. 2013); Allstate Ins. Co. v.Vizcay, No. 8:11-cv-804-EAK-EAJ, 2011 WL 5870016, at *3 (M.D. Fla. Nov. 22, 2011); Nationwide Mut. Co. v. Ft. Myers Total Rehab Ctr., Inc., 657 F.Supp.2d 1279, 1291-92 (M.D. Fla. 2009) (applying the Florida Declaratory Judgment Act because it is substantive and remedial in nature); Marco Island Cable, Inc. v. Comcast Cablevision of the S., Inc., 509 F.Supp.2d 1158, 1163 (M.D. Fla. 2007) (finding case law interpreting federal Declaratory Judgment Act inapplicable to claim brought pursuant to Florida Declaratory Judgment Act); see also Knights Armament Co.v. Optical Sys. Tech., Inc., 568 F.Supp.2d 1369, 1373-75 (M.D. Fla. 2008) (applying both federal and state law, noting that the conclusion under each was the same, where claim did not specify under which Declaratory Judgment Act it was being brought). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 However, upon review of the arguments raised in the Motion, the Court finds that it need not decide which declaratory judgment statute applies. Boys' Home contends that dismissal of this action is warranted because Diamond State fails to allege a justiciable controversy. See Motion at 5, 8. "Article III, \'a7 2, of the Constitution limits the jurisdiction of federal courts to 'Cases' or 'Controversies,' which restricts the authority of federal courts to resolving 'the legal rights of litigants in actual controversies.'" Genesis Healthcare Corp. v. Symczyk, 133 S.Ct. 1523, 1528(2013) (quoting Valley Forge Christian Coll. v. Americans United forSeparation of Church & State, Inc., 454 U.S. 464, 471 (1982)); U.S. FireIns. Co. v. Caulkins Indiantown Citrus Co., 931 F.2d 744, 747 (11th Cir. 1991) ("Under the United States Constitution, the federal judicial power extends only to 'cases' or 'controversies'." (quoting U.S. Const. art. III, \'a7 2, cl. 1)). "If jurisdiction is absent, then [the courts] are without power to proceed." RES-GA Cobblestone, LLC v. Blake Constr. & Dev., LLC, 718 F.3d 1308, 1314 (11th Cir. 2013). Indeed, "'courts have no business deciding legal disputes or expounding on law in the absence of such a case or controversy.'" Id. (quoting Already, LLC v. Nike, Inc., 568 U.S. ___, 133 S.Ct. 721, 726 (2013)). Such questions of justiciability are governed by federal law.[fn1] See Townhouses of Highland Beach Condo. Ass'n, 504 F.Supp.2d at 1310 ("State law determines the substantive rights and duties of the parties to an insurance contract, the question of justiciability is a federal issue to be determined only by federal law."); Westchester Fire Ins. Co. v. Punit Corp., No. 3:03cv188/MCR, [2006 BL 125871], 2006 WL 3755198, at *2 (N.D. Fla. Dec. 19, 2006) (collecting cases); seealso Trailer Bridge, Inc. v. Ill. Nat'l Ins. Co., 657 F.3d 1135, 1141 (11th Cir. 2011) ("In diversity actions, the federal court must apply the substantive law of the state in which it sits, 'except in matters governed by the Federal Constitution or by act of Congress.'" (quoting Erie R. Co. v.Tompkins, 304 U.S. 64, 78 (1938))); Vandenbrink, 542 F.App'x at 730(applying Article III principles to an action brought under the Florida Declaratory Judgment Act); but see Ft. Myers Total Rehab Ctr., Inc., 657 F.Supp.2d at 1291-93 (applying state law to determine whether action brought pursuant to Florida Declaratory Judgment Act presented a justiciable case or controversy); Marco Island Cable, Inc.[*4] , 509 F.Supp.2d at 1163-64(same).[fn2]
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Notably, "the jurisdictional limits under the [federal] declaratory judgment act mirror those found [in the] Constitution...." See ProvidentLife & Accident Ins. Co. v. Transamerica-Occidental Life Ins. Co., 850 F.2d 1489, 1491 (11th Cir. 1988). Specifically, the federal Declaratory Judgment Act limits a court's jurisdiction to issue a declaratory judgment to cases of "actual controversy." See28 U.S.C. \'a7 2201(a). This reference to cases of "'actual controversy manifestly has regard to the constitutional provision and is operative only in respect to controversies which are such in the constitutional sense.'" Provident Life & Accident Ins. Co., 850 F.2d at 1490-91 (quoting Aetna LifeIns. Co. v. Haworth, 300 U.S. 227, 239-40 (1937)). Indeed, the "standard for determining whether an 'actual controversy' exists within the meaning of the [federal] Declaratory Judgment Act is the same as that under the 'case or controversy' requirement of the Constitution." Hendrix v. Poonai, 662 F.2d 719, 721 (11th Cir. 1981). Therefore, because the standards are the same, the Court finds cases interpreting the federal Declaratory Judgment Act's "actual controversy" requirement to be instructive in determining whether this case presents a constitutional "case or controversy" within the Court's judicial power to decide. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 III. Standard of Review
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Although Boys' Home characterizes its Motion as a request for dismissal for failure to state a claim upon which relief can be granted under Rule 12(b)(6), see Motion at 1, as discussed above, Boys' Home's argument that Diamond State fails to allege a justiciable controversy is actually a challenge to this Court's subject matter jurisdiction. See Vandenbrink, 542 F.App'x at 730 (vacating dismissal for failure to state a claim and remanding with instructions to dismiss for lack of subject matter jurisdiction where court found injury not imminent enough for purposes of judicial decisionmaking); Hendrix, 662 F.2d at 722 (stating that without a justiciable controversy, "the judicial power conferred upon the federal courts by article III may not be exercised"). Accordingly, the Court will construe the Motion as a motion to dismiss for lack of jurisdiction under Rule 12(b)(1). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Rule 12(b)(1) provides for the dismissal of a case when the court determines it lacks subject matter jurisdiction over the action. Because a court is powerless to act in the absence of subject matter jurisdiction, "a court must zealously ensure that jurisdiction exists over a case." Smith v.GTE Corp., 236 F.3d 1292, 1299 (11th Cir. 2001). A motion to dismiss for lack of subject matter jurisdiction under Rule 12(b)(1) may be founded on either a "facial" or "factual" challenge to the court's jurisdiction: 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Facial attacks challenge subject matter jurisdiction based on the allegations in the complaint, and the district court takes the allegations as true in deciding whether to grant the motion. Factual attacks challenge subject matter jurisdiction in fact, irrespective of the pleadings. In resolving a factual attack, the district court may consider extrinsic evidence such as testimony and affidavits. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Morrison v. Amway, Corp., 323 F.3d 920, 924 (11th Cir. 2003) (citing Lawrence v. Dunbar, 919 F.2d 1525, 1528-29 (11th Cir. 1990)) (internal citations omitted). In the matter [*5] before the Court, Boys' Home mounts a facial attack to the existence of subject matter jurisdiction. Thus, the Court will consider the allegations of the Amended Complaint, and if it determines that it lacks subject matter jurisdiction, the claim against Boys' Home will be dismissed as the Court "will be powerless to continue." Univ. of S. Ala. v. Am. Tobacco Co., 168 F.3d 405, 410 (11th Cir. 1999). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 IV. Discussion
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 "[A] party seeking a declaratory judgment has the burden of establishing the existence of an actual case or controversy." Cardinal Chem. Co. v.Morton Int'l, Inc., 508 U.S. 83, 95 (1993). Parties invoking the Court's jurisdiction must show, at a minimum, "'(1) that they personally have suffered some actual or threatened injury as a result of the alleged conduct of the defendant; (2) that the injury fairly can be traced to the challenged action; and (3) that it is likely to be redressed by a favorable decision.'" GTE Directories Publ'g Corp. v. Trimen Am., Inc., 67 F.3d 1563, 1567 (11th Cir. 1995) (quoting U.S. Fire Ins. Co., 931 F.2d at 747). "'Basically, the question in each case is whether the facts alleged, under all the circumstances, show that there is a substantial controversy, between parties having adverse legal interests, of sufficient immediacy and reality to warrant the issuance of a declaratory judgment.'" Id. (quoting Maryland Cas. Co. v. Pac. Coal & Oil Co., 312 U.S. 270, 273(1941)). Significantly, the fact that the controversy rests on a contingency "does not necessarily defeat jurisdiction of a declaratory judgment action."  Id. at 1569 (quoting Associated Indem. v. Fairchild Indus., 961 F.2d 32, 35(2d Cir. 1992)). "Rather, 'the practical likelihood that the contingencies will occur and that the controversy is a real one should be decisive in determining whether an actual controversy exists.'" Id. (quoting 10A C. Wright, A. Miller & M. Kane, Federal Practice and Procedure, \'a7 2757, at 587 (2d ed. 1983)). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Boys' Home argues that Diamond State has failed to allege a justiciable controversy against Boys' Home because "Boys' Home is not alleged to be negligent in the [Underlying Action] and no party has sought to bring Boys' Home in. Boys' Home is not a party to the [Underlying] Action and [Diamond State] is not actually defending Boys' Home in that action." See Motion at 2. According to Boys' Home, whether the Policy provides coverage to Boys' Home for its potential liability in a potential lawsuit is merely a hypothetical question, and not ripe for review.  Id. at 2-3. In its Response, Diamond State contends that: 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [a]lthough Boys Home [sic] is not a party to the [Underlying Action], Boys Home has a cognizable and definite interest in the coverage afforded under the subject insurance policy. As the named insured and payer of premiums under the subject policy, Boys Home has an interest in any and all determinations of coverage under that policy. Moreover, to the extent that Diamond State has contracted with any other Defendant in this action and agreed to indemnify or obtain insurance coverage indemnifying said Defendants, Boys Home has an interest in the determination of coverage for those entities under its subject Diamond State policy.... In light of the subject policy limits, any finding of indemnity coverage in [*6] favor of any Defendant would necessarily impact the amount of remaining coverage available under the policy 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 See Response at 3-4. In addition, Diamond State argues that a determination of Boys' Home's coverage under the Policy "has a direct impact upon the valuation and potential settlement of the [Underlying Action]."  Id. at 4. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 In the Amended Complaint, Diamond State's sole claim against Boys' Home seeks a declaration that it is not obligated to provide coverage under the Policy to Boys' Home for the conduct alleged in the Underlying Action. SeeAmended Complaint at 8. However, upon review, the Court finds that no actual controversy exists between Boys' Home and Diamond State on that issue. Boys' Home is not named in the Underlying Action, and there are no allegations to suggest that the Minor Children have sought, or will seek, to hold Boys' Home liable on the claims raised in that case. Thus, the need for a declaration specifically as to Boys' Home's coverage under the Policy is based entirely on speculation that some one, at some point, may bring some claim against Boys' Home in relation to the conduct alleged in the Underlying Action. See Ill. Union Ins. Co. v. Cliff Berry Inc., No. 06-20951-CivHuck/Bandstra, [2006 BL 137231], 2006 WL 3667230, at *3 (S.D. Fla. Nov. 17, 2006) ("It is not enough that [the insured] may at some point have a claim brought against him that would trigger a dispute over his coverage. [The insurer] must have an actual controversy with [the insured] in order to properly bring a declaration action against him."); see also Travelers Indem. Co. v.Bally Total Fitness Holding Corp., 448 F.Supp.2d 976, 984 (N.D. Ill. Sept. 11, 2006) ("In the insurance context, courts in this circuit have repeatedly held that the case or controversy requirement is not satisfied until a suit has been brought against the insured that might lead to a claim against the insurer." (citing Solo Cup Co. v. Fed. Ins. Co., 619 F.2d 1178, 1189 (7th Cir. 1980) ("The mere possibility that proceedings might be commenced against an insured regarding an act of the insured's as to which the insurer might contest coverage, is not sufficient to create a controversy within the meaning of either the Declaratory Judgment Act or Article III of the Constitution."))). Although this Court does not conclude that an insured must always be named in an underlying suit for an actionable controversy with its insurer to arise, here, not only has Boys' Home not been sued, but Diamond State has not alleged that Boys' Home has made even a demand for coverage with respect to its potential liability. See Atlanta Int'l Ins. Co.v. Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Ry. Co., 938 F.2d 81, 83-84 (7th Cir. 1991) (finding no actual controversy where insured had not made any demand under the policy reasoning that "the requisite 'injury' \'97a claim for payment by [the insured]\'97 neither occurred nor was it immediately threatened by any of [the insured's] actions"); Century Indem. Co. v. Anheuser-Busch, Inc., No. 4:11-CV-1097 (CEJ), [2012 BL 62853], 2012 WL 919008, at *3 (E.D. Mo. Mar. 19, 2012) (finding allegation that the insured "has or may" demand defense or indemnity on at least some of the underlying claims was insufficient to establish jurisdiction); Nat'l Union Fire Ins. Co. of Pittsburg, [*7] PA v. ESI ErgonomicSolutions, LLC, 342 F.Supp.2d 853, 862-63 (D. Ariz. 2004); cf. ProgressiveAm. Ins. Co. v. Steele, ___ F.Supp.2d ___, 2014 WL 1613292, at *4 (M.D. Fla. Apr. 18, 2014) (finding justiciable controversy, although no tort suit filed, where injured party had made settlement demand on insurer). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Nevertheless, Diamond State argues that an actual controversy exists between Diamond State and Boys' Home because FSSNF's demand for coverage under the Policy implicates Boys' Home's interests. However, the Court finds that any potential impact the coverage dispute between Diamond State and FSSNF may have on Boys' Home's interests is insufficient to create an actual controversy between Boys' Home and Diamond State with respect to Boys' Home's coverage under the Policy. Notably, a court rejected similar arguments raised by an insurance company with respect to its named insured in Colony Nat'l Ins. Co. v. DeAngelo Bros., Inc., No. 3:13-CV-00401, [2014 BL 79535], 2014 WL 1159776 (M.D. Pa. Mar. 21, 2014). In that case, DeAngelo Bros. was the named insured on a policy issued by Colony National Insurance Co. ColonyNat'l, [2014 BL 79535], 2014 WL 1159776, at *2. The policy also covered Union Pacific as an additional insured in the event Union Pacific was held liable for the conduct of DeAngelo Bros. Id. at *4. In an underlying state lawsuit, an injured party brought a negligence action against Union Pacific, but did not name DeAngelo Bros. Id. at *1. The insurance company brought a declaratory judgment action against Union Pacific and DeAngelo Bros. seeking a declaration to resolve the scope of its obligations to provide coverage under the policy. Id. at *2. DeAngelo Bros. moved to dismiss the declaratory judgment against it, arguing that it should be dropped from the action "because it did not have a stake in it, as ... the action allegedly concerns only the extent of liability between Union Pacific and the two insurers." Id. at *3. According to DeAngelo Bros., "even though the present action requests an allocation of fault for the underlying accident between Union Pacific and DeAngelo, this is only requested to determine whether and to what extent Colony actually owes Union Pacific coverage under the policy...." Id. at *4. 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 The insurer argued that DeAngelo Bros. was a necessary party to the action because if Union Pacific were to establish an entitlement to coverage, the limits of the insurance policy could potentially be exhausted leaving no coverage for DeAngelo Bros. Id. at *6. Additionally, the insurer argued that if the insurance policy did not cover the full amount, DeAngelo Bros. could be responsible for funding the uninsured portion of the loss in accordance with its contractual indemnity obligation to Union Pacific. Id. The court rejected these arguments, reasoning that: 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [s]uch abstract speculation about future indemnity actions, or about the exhaustion of insurance coverage for hypothetical claims unrelated to this lawsuit, appears to improperly rely on conjecture about 'contingent future events that may not occur as anticipated, or indeed may not occur at all' and may be insufficient to make DeAngelo a proper party 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 to the declaratory judgment [*8] action. Id. (quoting Doe v. Cnty. of Centre,Pa., 242 F.3d 437, 453 (3d Cir. 2001)). However, the court ultimately did not decide the issue on that basis because Union Pacific filed a separate lawsuit for indemnification against DeAngelo Bros. which brought "the litigation between DeAngelo and the insurers out of the realm of abstraction and into the realm of a concrete controversy" which the court could properly adjudicate. Id. at *6-8. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 In the instant action, unlike the Colony National case, the Court has no indication that FSSNF, the additional insured, has separately demanded indemnification from Boys' Home, or that Boys' Home has contracted to indemnify FSSNF, or any of the other Defendants. Compare Colony Nat'l, [2014 BL 79535], 2014 WL 1159776, at *1, *6. Thus, as discussed in Colony National, Diamond State's mere speculation about this suit's potential impact on policy limits, indemnity agreements, or potential settlements, relies on mere conjecture about future events that may not occur as anticipated, or may not occur at all. See id.at *6. In the absence of any allegations that: the Minor Children seek to hold Boys' Home liable for the conduct alleged in the Underlying Action, Boys' Home has demanded coverage from Diamond State with respect to those claims, or one of the other Defendants has demanded indemnification from Boys' Home for the conduct alleged in the Underlying Action, the Court finds no "actual controversy" between Diamond State and Boys' Home in this matter.[fn3] Because the facts alleged, under all the circumstances, do not "present a substantial controversy, between parties having adverse legal interests, of sufficient immediacy and reality to warrant the issuance of a declaratory judgment," the Court concludes that it lacks jurisdiction over Diamond State's claim against Boys' Home, and therefore, the Court will grant the Motion to Dismiss on that basis. See GTE Directories, 67 F.3d at 1567 (internal quotation omitted). Accordingly, it is 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 ORDERED: 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 1. Defendant Boys' Home Association, Inc.'s Motion to Dismiss (Doc. 34) is GRANTED.
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 2. The claim against Boys' Home Association, Inc. set forth in Count I of the Amended Complaint is DISMISSED WITHOUT PREJUDICE.
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 DONE AND ORDERED.
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn1] "Justiciability is the term of art employed to give expression to this ... limitation placed upon federal courts by the case-and-controversy doctrine." See United States v. Rivera, 613 F.3d 1046, 1049 (11th Cir. 2010) (quoting Flast v. Cohen, 392 U.S. 83, 95 (1968)). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn2] The Court notes that Florida law also requires the existence of an actual controversy before a court may entertain a declaratory judgment action. See, e.g., Florida v. Fla. Consumer Action Network, 830 So.2d 148, 151-52 (Fla. 1st Dist. Ct. App. 2002). Indeed, to be entitled to a declaratory judgment under Florida law, a plaintiff must demonstrate that: 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 (1) a good-faith dispute exists between the parties; (2) he presently has a justiciable question concerning the existence or non-existence of a right or status, or some fact on which such right or status may depend; (3) he is in doubt regarding his right or status...; and (4) a bona-fide, actual, present, and practical need for the declaration exists. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 See Rhea v. Dist. Bd. of Trs. of Santa Fe Coll., 109 So.3d 851, 859 (Fla. 1st Dist. Ct. App. 2013). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn3] The Court notes that Diamond State does not contend that dismissal is inappropriate because Boys' Home is a necessary party to this action, or that dismissal of Boys' Home from this suit may prejudice Diamond State by subjecting it to the possibility of multiple suits or inconsistent obligations. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb566\sa1133\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0          
\f0\fs42 General Information\

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 Judge(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Marcia Morales Howard\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Related Docket(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 3:13-cv-00457 (M.D. Fla.);\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Topic(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Constitutional Law; Civil Procedure; Insurance Law\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Date Filed\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 2014-09-16 00:00:00\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Parties\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 DIAMOND STATE INSURANCE COMPANY, Plaintiff, vs. BOYS\'92 HOME ASSOCIATION, INC., et al., Defendants.\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Case Type\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 SO\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Court\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 United States District Court for the Middle District of Florida\cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\li674\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\fs20 \cf0 Pagination \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 *
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 BL
\f1\fs24 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\li674\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Majority Opinion > 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 U.S. District Court, Southern District of Florida\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0  \uc0\u8232 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 PROCAPS S.A., Plaintiff, v. PATHEON INC., Defendant. 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0  \uc0\u8232 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 1:12-cv-24356-JG \
October 2, 2014 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 JONATHAN GOODMAN, Magistrate Judge. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb108\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 OMNIBUS ORDER DENYING PLAINTIFF'S MOTION FOR RECONSIDERATION AND BOTH PARTIES' MOTIONS TO COMPEL DISCOVERY\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 In his iconic song "Call Me the Breeze," 1  covered by Lynyrd Skynyrd, Johnny Cash and John Mayer, among many others, recently-deceased songwriter and musician JJ Cale  2  penned some lyrics which apply to Plaintiff's Motion for Reconsideration:\
"Ain't no change in the weather/Ain't no changes in me."\
The musical message of keeping things the same applies to Plaintiff Procaps S.A.'s ("Procaps") Motion for Reconsideration of the Court's Summary Judgment Order. The Omnibus Order issued here concerns both the reconsideration motion and pending discovery motions - Procaps' and Defendant Patheon Inc.'s ("Patheon") three Motions to Compel Discovery (two by Procaps and one by Patheon). [ECF Nos. 569; 576; 577; 584]. The parties have filed their respective responses and replies and the motions are now ripe. [ECF Nos. 580; 593; 600].\
Procaps asks the Court to reconsider its summary judgment order on its Florida Deceptive Unfair Trade Practices Act ("FDUPTA" or "FDUTPA") claim and also requests the Court to correct certain purportedly inaccurate factual statements. As will be explained below, the Court denies this motion because Procaps has not persuasively pinpointed any legal errors in the FDUPTA claim ruling and because the earlier order did not contain the factual errors Procaps highlights in its motion.\
Both Patheon and Procaps have filed motions to compel discovery. The Court denies these motions because (1) discovery, for the most part, closed on March 10, 2014, (2) the parties' agreement to hold discovery in abeyance without the Court's approval (or knowledge) is legally insufficient, and (3) the parties delayed bringing the discovery disputes to the Court's attention until long after the presumptive deadline established by local rule expired.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb108\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 I. BACKGROUND\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 In January 2012, Procaps and Patheon entered into a Collaboration Agreement to develop and market a brand of softgel products called "P-Gels." [ECF No. 565, pp. 6-7]. A few months later, Patheon acquired Banner Pharmcaps Europe B.V. ("Banner"), a Procaps competitor. [Id. at p. 29]. Procaps then filed this action, alleging that the Banner acquisition rendered the Collaboration Agreement illegal under federal and state antitrust and competition laws because Procaps and Patheon will become horizontally-situated competitors in the softgel market. [ECF Nos. 1; 21, p. 3]. In counts I-III of its complaint, Procaps sought equitable and monetary damages under the Sherman Act, 15 U.S.C. \'a7 1. In count IV, Procaps claimed a FDUPTA violation. And, in count V, Procaps sought damages for common law unfair competition.\
Both parties moved for summary judgment; Patheon for full summary judgment and Procaps for partial summary judgment. [ECF Nos. 332; 334]. The Court denied in large part the contested aspects of the summary judgment motions. As to the antitrust claims (counts I-III), the Court granted [*2] Procaps' motion that the interstate commerce requirement was met (a point which was not in dispute). The Court, however, denied the remainder of both parties' motions on these claims and found that the rule of reason analysis, rather than the per se analysis, applies to the antitrust claims. As to the FDUPTA claim, the Court denied in large part Patheon's summary judgment motion on this claim for the same reasons articulated in its antitrust analysis. But the Court granted Patheon summary judgment on count IV for any recovery theories other than the section 1 antitrust claim. Finally, the Court granted Patheon summary judgment on count V, the common law unfair competition claim.\
Procaps has now moved for reconsideration of the Court's decision on count IV and to clarify certain factual matters in the Order. [ECF No. 569]. As to its FDUPTA claim, Procaps argues the following in support of its reconsideration request: (1) the Court misinterpreted FDUPTA in requiring Procaps to show misuse or disclosure of its confidential information; (2) if the Court does not find that it erred in applying FDUPTA, then it should allow Procaps leave to amend its complaint; and (3) the Court's summary judgment on the FDUPTA claim was premature because discovery remains ongoing and outstanding. As to the correction of factual errors, Procaps contends the Court made certain factual errors in its orders. Patheon agrees that discovery is ongoing, but opposes the motion.\
A week after filing its reconsideration motion, Procaps filed two discovery motions on August 20, 2014. [ECF Nos. 576; 577]. In its first motion, Procaps seeks to compel documents from its February 8, 2014 Fifth Request for Production. [ECF No. 576]. Procaps also filed a motion to compel interrogatory answers. [ECF No. 577]. Patheon opposes these motions. [ECF No. 593]. Patheon also filed its own motion to compel production of documents and interrogatory answers. [ECF No. 584]. Procaps opposes that motion. [ECF No. 600].\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb108\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 II. DISCUSSION\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 A. The Reconsideration Motion\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Procaps' reconsideration motion consists of two main arguments: the FDUPTA arguments and the alleged factual errors arguments. The Court will deal with these issues in reverse order.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb108\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 1. Applicable Legal Standard\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 While the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure do not expressly provide for a motion for reconsideration, such a motion can be raised under various rules, depending on the nature of the underlying order. Because the Court's summary judgment order is a non-final interlocutory order, Procaps has chosen to pursue relief under Rule 54(b) . That Rule provides, in pertinent part, that an interlocutory order "is subject to revision at any time before the entry of judgment adjudicating all the claims and the rights and liabilities of all the parties." Fed. R. Civ. P. 54(b) ; James River Ins. Co. v. Fortress Sys., LLC, No. 11-60558-Civ-Cohn, [2012 BL 341114], 2012 WL 6738534 , at *3 (S.D. Fla. Dec. 31, 2012) (noting that an order denying motion for summary judgment was not a final order and thus reviewable under Rule 54(b) ).\
While Rule 54(b) does not specify a standard for reconsideration, courts in this circuit have recognized three major grounds that [*3] justify reconsideration: "(1) an intervening change in controlling law; (2) the availability of new evidence; and (3) the need to correct clear error or prevent manifest injustice." Burger King Corp. v. Ashland Equities, Inc., 181 F. Supp. 2d 1366, 1369 (S.D. Fla. 2002) (citing Z.K. Marine, Inc. v. M/V Archigetis, 808 F. Supp. 1561, 1563 (S.D. Fla. 1992)). A motion for reconsideration should "not be used to present authorities that were available at the time of the first decision, or to reiterate arguments previously made." Z.K. Marine, 808 F. Supp. at 1563 . Similarly, it "is not an opportunity to rethink what the Court already thought through-rightly or wrongly." Grupo Televisa, S.A. v. Telemundo Commc'ns Grp., Inc., No. 04-20073-Civ-Ungaro, 2007 WL 4699017, at *1 (S.D. Fla. Oct. 12, 2007) (internal citations and quotations omitted). "Rather, the movant must demonstrate why the court should reconsider its prior decision and set forth facts or law of a strongly convincing nature to induce the court to reverse its prior decision." James River Ins. Co., [2012 BL 341114], 2012 WL 6738534 , at *3 (internal citation and quotations omitted).\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb108\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 2. The Alleged Factual Errors in the Court's Order\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Procaps argues that the Court should correct four factual errors.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb108\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 i. Date of Proposals\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Regarding the date of the proposals submitted under the Collaboration Agreement, the Court wrote: "Between January 2012 and October 2012, the parties submitted 43 solicited and unsolicited proposals." [ECF No. 565, p. 9]. Procaps contends that this statement is inaccurate because 41 of the 43 proposals were submitted after March 2012. [ECF No. 569, p. 11].\
It is not clear how the Court's statement is incorrect. No one disputes that the parties did in fact submit 43 proposals between January 2012 (the date the parties entered into the Collaboration Agreement) and October 2012. [ECF Nos. 333, \'b6 12; 396, \'b6 12]. To be sure, the Court could have detailed the precise dates of each proposal, but neither party provided that information in their respective Statements of Material Facts. [See ECF Nos. 333; 335; 396]. Indeed, even now, Procaps does not tell the Court whether the 2 unaccounted proposals were before March 2012. Accordingly, the Court does not find this statement inaccurate. Regardless of Procaps' failure to provide greater specificity, the initial statement remains accurate. The mere fact that a statement could be more detailed does not render it incorrect.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb108\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 ii. When Patheon Began to Consider Banner\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 In its Order, the Court stated the following: "By August 2012, Patheon, without telling Procaps, began to reconsider whether it had chosen the right 'partner'... [and] began considering (again)... Banner." [ECF No. 565, p. 9]. Procaps contends that the Order is incorrect because Patheon began pursuing Banner in June 2012. There are three problems with Procaps' contention.\
First, as Patheon correctly points out, the Court did not say when Patheon began pursuing Banner. Rather, the factual statement concerns when Patheon began to reconsider Procaps as a partner. While potentially related circumstances, pursuing Banner and reconsidering Procaps remain distinct factual events.\
Second, the portions of the record that Procaps now cites in support of this contention were not cited in any of its summary judgment briefing or are not in the record. [ECF Nos. 399, p. 1; 505, p. 16]. And as the Court previously advised [*4] Procaps when it filed more than 2,500 pages of exhibits in support of its summary judgment, the Court was going to review only those portions of the record "actually cited by Procaps." [ECF No. 348, p. 3].\
Finally, in its response to Patheon's Statement of Undisputed Facts, Procaps itself conceded that "Patheon had undertaken to acquire Banner since August 2012." [ECF No. 519-1, \'b6 15]. Accordingly, the Court does not find this statement that Procaps challenges here to be inaccurate nor in need of clarification.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb108\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 iii. Why Procaps Filed the Lawsuit\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 In a pre-suit internal memorandum between Procaps executives regarding the Banner acquisition, a Procaps' executive wrote the following regarding Procaps proposed strategy: \
IN THE INSTANCE THAT AN AGREED SOLUTION CANNOT BE REACHED AND THAT WE SHOULD PRESENT A LEGAL CLAIM, WHICH PATHEON WILL WANT TO SETTLE OUT OF COURT SO THAT IT DOES NOT INTERFERE WITH ITS ACQUISITION.
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 [ECF No. 333-7, p. 41 (all caps emphasis in original)]. The memorandum then discusses possible demands for monetary and other compensation from Patheon.\
Based on the record before it, including this memorandum, the Court wrote: \
Procaps rejected all of Patheon's suggestions and offered none. Instead, Procaps focused on getting Patheon to pay it to leave the Collaboration Agreement or to divest Banner.\
...\
After the November 2012 discussion failed to produce a resolution, Procaps concluded that if it filed a lawsuit to interfere with the Banner acquisition, then Patheon would be willing to settle and pay Procaps to leave the Collaboration Agreement. As a result, on December 10, before the acquisition closed, Procaps filed its complaint.
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 [ECF No. 565, p. 10 (internal record citations omitted)]. Procaps argues that these statements by the Court are inaccurate because the memorandum was merely between a few Procaps employees and does not represent Procaps' actual motives. Procaps also argues that its motive in bringing this lawsuit is irrelevant.\
Procaps' attempt to describe this memorandum as simply between a few Procaps employees is unpersuasive. These "employees" are more than mere employees. They are Procaps' President & CEO, its Director of Business Development, its Vice President, Soft Gel Unit, and Vice President, Corporate Development. In other words, these are the company's leaders. Consequently, the Court finds that these statements were not inaccurate. And further, Procaps can rest assured that the Court did not base its summary judgment decision on what appears to be a motive of Procaps in filing this lawsuit.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb108\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 iv. The Biocryst Proposal\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Finally, Procaps contends that the Court was incorrect in noting that Procaps and Patheon each submitted bids to do work for Biocryst. Therefore, Procaps argues, this point cannot support the proposition that Procaps and Patheon were competitors before the Collaboration Agreement. [ECF No. 569, pp. 13-14].\
The Court has reviewed again the pertinent exhibits regarding the Biocryst proposal [ECF No. 333-4, pp. 8-15] and does not find this factual statement inaccurate. In particular, in his deposition [*5] testimony, Procaps' Vice President of its Soft Gel Unit indicated that both Procaps and Patheon were planning on submitting bids to Biocryst and that one bid to Biocryst came from Patheon's Cincinnati facility and the other came from Procaps' Colombian facility. [ECF No. 333-4, pp. 13-14]. This testimony demonstrates that the statement is accurate and need not be corrected or clarified.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb108\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 3. The FDUPTA Arguments\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Procaps contends that the Court erred in granting Patheon summary judgment on its FDUPTA claim for various reasons. [ECF No. 569, p. 2]. Before addressing Procaps' arguments, the Court notes that it did not grant Patheon's entire summary judgment motion on Procaps' FDUPTA claim. Rather, the Court denied Patheon summary judgment on the portion of Procaps' FDUPTA claim which arose from Procaps' antitrust allegations. The Court, however, granted summary judgment to Patheon on Procaps' new FDUPTA theory - that Patheon did not protect the confidential information for which Procaps gave Patheon full access. Thus, Procaps still has a viable, albeit narrowed, FDUPTA theory.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb108\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 i. The Court Applied the Correct Legal Standard to Procaps' FDUPTA Claim\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Procaps' first argument is that the Court erred in finding that FDUPTA requires Procaps to show misuse or unlawful disclosure of its confidential information to a third party under the facts and allegations at issue in this lawsuit. [ECF No. 569, p. 2]. It contends that the Court misinterpreted the holding in Sensormatic Electronics Corp. v. TAG Co. US, LLC, 632 F. Supp. 2d 1147, 1193 (S.D. Fla. 2008), the decision on which the Court relied. It also contends that the Court's "narrow" reading of FDUPTA contradicts the broad scope of the statute. At bottom, what Procaps wants is for the Court to hold that Procaps can maintain its FDUPTA "access-to-information" theory on the basis that it gave Patheon full access to its confidential information and Patheon did not protect that information. There are two problems with this.\
First, Procaps is no longer at the pleading stage; it, therefore, must produce some evidence to substantiate its theory that Patheon did not protect its confidential information. In that regard, the Court reiterates the point that there is no evidence Patheon has misused Procaps' confidential information or disclosed it to a third party. [ECF No. 565, pp. 44, 48-49]. Consequently, what is left before the Court is Procaps' contention that it can state and maintain a FDUPTA claim based only on Patheon's access to its confidential information. That leads to Procaps' second problem.\
To be sure, FDUPTA has a broad scope. That scope, however, is not limitless. Hanson Hams, Inc. v. HBH Franchise Co., LLC, No. 03-61198-Civ-Seltzer, 2004 WL 5470401, at *6 (S.D. Fla. Dec. 21, 2004). Under FDUPTA, an "unfair act" is "one that 'offends established public policy' and one that is 'immoral, unethical, oppressive, unscrupulous or substantially injurious to consumers.'" PNR, Inc. v. Beacon Prop. Mgmt. Inc., 842 So. 2d 773, 777 (Fla. 2003) (citation omitted).\
Procaps' argument seems to be that because FDUPTA has a broad scope, it encompasses its full access-to-information theory. But there is a logical gap in that argument: why and how would mere access to confidential information, without more, 3  constitute an "unfair act"? [*6] Despite having two chances to brief the issue, Procaps has not pointed to binding, persuasive authority validating Procaps' access-to-information FDUPTA theory. There is a good reason for that. To accept Procaps' argument would turn every breach of a contract with a confidentiality provision into a FDUPTA claim - which the Florida Supreme Court has explained is not the intent behind FDUPTA. PNR, 842 So. 2d at 777 n. 2 ("[T]his opinion does not operate to convert every breach of contract or breach of lease case into a claim under the Act. Indeed, such a construction would be precluded by the FDUTPA, which only reaches conduct that is unfair or deceptive as judged by controlling case law.").\
Finally, the Court does not agree that it misinterpreted Sensormatic in its summary judgment ruling. The Sensormatic court, after reciting FDUPTA's general principles, found a FDUPTA violation where the defendants intentionally copied the plaintiff's confidential information and disseminated it. Sensormatic, 632 F. Supp. 2d at 1197 . All this Court did was adopt the Sensormatic court's holding that this type of conduct constitutes an "unfair act" under FDUPTA. [ECF No. 565, p. 44]. The summary judgment order did not limit FDUPTA to only these "unfair acts." [Id. at pp. 43-44 ("FDUPTA, however, requires, at a minimum,...")]. The Undersigned's view of Sensormatic is not legally incorrect and did not unfairly deprive Procaps of a legitimate claim. See generally DSSDR, LLC v. Zenith Infotech, Ltd., No. 13-10026-FDS, [2013 BL 287975], 2013 WL 5724052 , at *8 (D. Mass. Oct. 18, 2013) (holding that defendants' "alleged failures to... maintain confidentiality obligations under the License Agreement, without more, do not constitute unfair practices" under FDUPTA).\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb108\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 ii. Procaps' Request to Amend its Complaint\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Procaps requests that if the Court declines reconsideration of the Order on the FDUPTA claim because of pleading deficiencies, then Procaps should now be given the ability to amend its complaint. [ECF No. 569, p. 5]. This request is aimed at Patheon's argument that Procaps' FDUPTA claim cannot incorporate by reference the prior factual allegations in the complaint. [ECF No. 580, pp. 3-4].\
While the Court has noted the pleadings deficiency and pointed out that Procaps' FDUPTA claim does not contain the misconduct it alleges now and at summary judgment, the Court has addressed the merits of this misconduct theory in its Summary Judgment Order and now. [ECF No. 565, pp. 43-44]. Accordingly, this request is denied as moot. The Court also denies this request because the deadline to amend the complaint passed more than a year ago and Procaps has not shown the requisite good cause for an amendment. Lowe's Home Ctrs., Inc. v. Olin Corp., 313 F.3d 1307, 1315 (11th Cir. 2002) ("it is not an abuse of discretion for a district court to deny a motion for leave to amend following the close of discovery, past the deadline for amendments and past the deadline for filing dispositive motions.") (citations omitted); see generally Sosa v. Airprint Sys., 133 F.3d 1417, 1418 n. 2 (11th Cir. 1998).\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb108\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 iii. Summary Judgment was not Premature\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Procaps' final argument is that summary judgment on its FDUPTA claim was premature because the Court overlooked the fact that substantial discovery was outstanding. [ECF No. 569, p. 6]. In particular, Procaps points to the following discovery [*7] issues: (1) its discovery request from DSM Phamaceutical Products ("DSM") is pending in the district of New Jersey; (2) its motion to compel a forensic analysis of Patheon's ESI is pending before the special master; and (3) Patheon has improperly refused to answer its discovery requests and Procaps will soon (and now has) filed motions to compel. [ Id. at pp. 6-11]. Procaps' first two discovery arguments are not well taken. The Court will address the third argument when it addresses the parties' discovery motions.\
First, neither in its papers nor during the all day summary judgment hearing did Procaps advise the Court of its view that summary judgment would be premature. To the contrary, on several occasions Procaps' counsel stated they were comfortable with the summary judgment schedule. [ECF Nos. 358, pp. 17-19; 387, pp. 4, 14-15].\
Moreover, if Procaps believed that it could not respond to Patheon's summary judgment without more discovery, then it should have filed an affidavit explaining why, as required by Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 56(d) . Procaps did not do that. All there is in the record to indicate that Procaps gave notice of its belief that additional discovery is required is a cryptic footnote about discovery in its summary judgment response. [ECF No. 520-1, p. 29 n. 14]. This does not come close to complying with Rule 56(d) 's affidavit requirement. Accordingly, the Court finds that Procaps has not preserved this argument. See Fiorillo v. Carnival Corp., No. 12-21599-Civ-Cohn, [2013 BL 45198], 2013 WL 632264 , at *3 (S.D. Fla. Feb. 20, 2013) ("because Plaintiff has failed to file the necessary affidavit or declaration, she cannot rely on Rule 56(d) as a reason to avoid the entry of summary judgment.") (citing Ashmore v. Sec'y, Dep't of Transp., 503 F. App'x 683, 686 (11th Cir. 2013)).\
Second, Procaps' argument that discovery from DSM and the potential forensic analysis of Patheon's ESI might show Patheon's actual misuse of its confidential information (as opposed to merely having access to it) is too speculative. For instance, the Special Master has not even ruled on Procaps' forensic analysis motion. And even if he were to recommend that it be granted, the Court would still have to review his recommendation and also agree that it be granted.\
As to the DSM discovery, Procaps has not offered any concrete basis to show that the forthcoming discovery from DSM will support its FDUPTA claim. Nevertheless, the Court will not entirely foreclose Procaps' argument on this point. If the DSM discovery or the potential forensic analysis discovery from Patheon (if it happens) produces substantial and bona fide evidence that supports Procaps' FDUPTA claim (of actual misuse of confidential information), then, consistent with its Rule 11 obligations Procaps may file a renewed motion on this limited issue.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb108\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 B. The Discovery Motions and Arguments\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Discovery in this case closed on March 10, 2014. [ECF No. 94, p. 5]. Fifteen days before the discovery cutoff, each party was required to advise the court of any unresolved discovery motions. [Id. at p. 6]. In a March 25, 2014 Order that removed this case from the trial calendar because of the delay in completing Procaps' forensic analysis, the Court reiterated the point [*8] that only the deadlines that had not passed by that date would be held in abeyance. [ECF No. 432, p. 12]. In addition to the Court's orders, the Local Rules require all discovery issues to be brought before the Court within 30 days of the grounds for the occurrence of the discovery motion. Local Rule 26.1(h)(1) .\
More than five months after the expiration of the Court's discovery deadline, both Procaps and Patheon have now filed motions to compel discovery from the other. [ECF Nos. 576; 577; 593]. Procaps has also used this ongoing discovery to argue that summary judgment was premature. The purported ongoing discovery is well beyond the expiration of the discovery deadline, however.\
Although the Undersigned was never aware of the purely private agreement until recently, it seems as though Procaps and Patheon decided among themselves to hold discovery in abeyance until the Court ruled on their summary judgment motions. In particular, in early June 2014 the parties exchanged emails and stipulated as follows: \
[T]he parties mutually agree that the 30-day time period set forth in Local Rule 26.1(h) within which to bring all discovery motions is tolled during the period of the 'stay.' As such, both sides agree that neither will argue that any future discovery motion related to the issues identified in the two letters is time barred as a result of the time that elapsed before this agreement or the time that elapses between now and the Court's order deciding the summary judgment motions.
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 [ECF No. 569-9]. Interestingly enough, it appears that no one proposed asking the Court to adopt this stipulation or to even let the Court know of its existence. Of course, these failures to involve the Court in the post-deadline discovery arrangement make the stipulation problematic.\
First, the parties have not cited to any legal authority permitting them, by agreement, to vary a court's local rules, without court permission. Cheshire v. Bank of Am., NA, 351 F. App'x 386, 388 (11th Cir. 2009) (noting that local rules have the "force of law"). This is particularly true here, where the parties' private agreement subverts Local Rule 26.1(h) 's policy "of promoting the prompt resolution of discovery disputes by requiring the parties to timely bring to the court's attention matters that the parties cannot resolve amongst themselves." Kendall Lakes Towers Condo. Ass'n, Inc. v. Pac. Ins. Co., 310-CIV, 2011 WL 6190160, at *2 (S.D. Fla. Dec. 2, 2011). In addition, this is not the parties' first encounter with Local Rule 26.1(h) . In an earlier order, the Court made clear that, under Local Rule 26.1(h) it has the discretion to consider a late-filed discovery motion. [ECF No. 433, p. 3 (citing Sandalwood Estates Homeowner's Ass'n, Inc. v. Empire Indem. Ins. Co., No. 09-CV-80787, [2010 BL 19700], 2010 WL 411088 , at *2 (S.D. Fla. Jan. 29, 2010))].\
Second, by agreement and without the Court's knowledge or permission, the parties have de facto tried to extend the Court's already-expired discovery deadline. [ECF Nos. 94, p. 5; 432, p. 12]. It is well settled that "parties may not independently extend any deadline imposed by the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure or this Court. If the parties seek an extension, they are required to file an appropriate motion explaining the relief sought...." Lytle v. Lowe's Home Ctrs., Inc., No. 8:12-CV-1848-T-33, 2014 WL 1819650, at *2 (M.D. Fla. May 7, 2014). Here, the parties never asked the Court for permission [*9] to extend its discovery deadline. In fact, they did not even let the Court know of this agreement.\
To be sure, the Court's trial scheduling order notes that the parties may by agreement conduct discovery after the expiration of the discovery deadline [ECF No. 94, p. 6]. However, this provision has two important caveats: (1) the parties cannot "rely on the Court to resolve any discovery disputes arising after the discovery cutoff date," and (2) counsel should not seek to extend any deadline based on post-deadline discovery. [Id.].\
But the three motions to compel are surely efforts to use the private, secret agreement to persuade the Court to resolve discovery disputes beyond the discovery deadline. In other words, the parties' motions to compel seek the very type of relief precluded by the trial scheduling order.\
Third, it seems clear that even the parties understand that discovery is over. In fact, at an August 20, 2014 hearing in New Jersey federal district court on Procaps' motion to compel against DSM [ECF No. 588-2, p. 7], Procaps' counsel advised the Court there that "discovery is now over except a few pending matters, one of which is this one."\
Finally, the Court addresses Procaps argument that Patheon is being rewarded for obfuscating discovery. Procaps' argument is inconsistent with the extensive record in this case. Specifically, the Court has given the parties more than their fair share of its time in dealing with their discovery disputes. The Court's informal review of the record shows that the Court has already addressed no less than 22 discovery-related motions/issues. [ECF Nos. 13; 69; 96; 122; 131; 133; 212; 214; 216; 262; 264; 272; 337; 340; 350; 354; 373; 443; 450; 480; 499; 559]. Thus, it is puzzling to suggest that somehow Procaps, and for that matter Patheon, have not had ample time and opportunity to get the discovery they need for this case.\
Accordingly, for the foregoing reasons, the Court rejects the parties' private stipulation to hold discovery in abeyance and finds that their discovery motions are significantly untimely under Local Rule 26.1(h) and its Scheduling Order. Therefore, the undersigned denies all three motions to compel, with one category of exceptions: If (1) the discovery provided by Procaps to Patheon as part of the Court-ordered forensic analysis of Procaps' ESI, (2) any similar discovery which might be provided in connection with Procaps' motion to compel a forensic analysis of Patheon's ESI, 4  or (3) the DSM-provided discovery yields any substantively significant evidence warranting further discovery, then the party or parties receiving the evidence may (after consulting with opposing counsel) file a motion for additional discovery, limited to issues arising out of the newly-provided evidence.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb108\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 III. CONCLUSION\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 For the sake of musical symmetry, the Undersigned will end this Order by paraphrasing lyrics from another JJ Cale song. The song is "Carry On," 5  which, as modified for this case, advises: "Let out all the slack, take it off your back, Carry on, carry on [with the claims remaining after the summary judgment order]." Therefore, for the reasons [*10] discussed above, the Undersigned denies Procaps' Motion for Reconsideration and the parties' cross-motions to compel discovery.\
DONE AND ORDERED.
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0  \uc0\u8232 \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 1\
From the Naturally album (1972 Mercury Records).\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 2\
Born in 1938, JJ Cale died on July 26, 2013. http://www.cnn.com/2013/07/27/showbiz/jj-cale-obit/ (last visited September 30, 2014).\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 3\
Procaps has argued that this something more is Patheon's decision to enter into the Collaboration Agreement and its later decision to then enter into another agreement, i.e., the Banner acquisition. As the Court has explained, there is no legal authority to support this theory. [ECF No. 565, pp. 46-47].\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 4\
By mentioning this possibility, the Undersigned is not suggesting that the Special Master will or should recommend that Procaps' motion for a forensic analysis of Patheon's ESI be granted, nor am I implying that I would enter an actual order requiring this if the Special Master were to recommend it.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 5\
From the Shades album (MCA 1981).\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb566\sa1133\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0          
\f0\fs42 General Information\

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 Judge(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Jonathan Goodman\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Related Docket(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 1:12-cv-24356 (S.D. Fla.);\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Topic(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Civil Procedure; Consumer Law\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Date Filed\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 2014-10-02 00:00:00\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Parties\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 PROCAPS S.A., Plaintiff, v. PATHEON INC., Defendant.\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Court\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 United States District Court for the Southern District of Florida\cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\li674\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\fs20 \cf0 Pagination \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 *
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 F. Supp. 2d 
\f1\fs24 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 **
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 BL
\f1\fs24 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\li674\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Majority Opinion > 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA, MIAMI DIVISION\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0  \uc0\u8232 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 GAME CONTROLLER TECHNOLOGY LLC, Plaintiff, v. SONY COMPUTER ENTERTAINMENT AMERICA LLC and SONY CORPORATION OF AMERICA, Defendants. 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0  \uc0\u8232 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 CASE NO. 13-22795-CIV-ALTONAGA/Simonton \
January 10, 2014, Entered on Docket January 10, 2014, Decided[*1270] \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 For Game Controller Technology LLC, Plaintiff: John J. Edmonds, Johnathan K. Yazdani, Stephen F. Schlather, LEAD ATTORNEYS, PRO HAC VICE, Collins, Edmonds, Pogorzelski, Schlather & Tower, PLLC, Houston, TX; Shea N. Palavan, LEAD ATTORNEY, PRO HAC VICE, Collins, Edmonds, Pagorzelski, Schlather & Tower, PLLC, Houston, TX; Curtis David Carlson, Carlson & Lewittes PA, Miami, FL.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 For Sony Computer Entertainment America LLC, Defendant: Edward Maurice Mullins, LEAD ATTORNEY, Astigarraga Davis Mullins & Grossman, Miami, FL; Eric A. Buresh, LEAD ATTORNEY, PRO HAC VICE, Erise IP, Overland Park, KS; Regan Noelle Kruse, LEAD ATTORNEY, Rafael Javier Valdes, Astigarraga Davis Mullins & Grossman, P.A., Miami, FL. \
For Sony Corporation of America, Defendant: Abran J. Kean, LEAD ATTORNEY, PRO HAC VICE, Erise, IP, Greenwood Village, CO; Edward Maurice Mullins, LEAD ATTORNEY, Astigarraga Davis Mullins & Grossman, Miami, FL; Eric A. Buresh, LEAD ATTORNEY, PRO HAC VICE, Erise IP, Overland Park, KS; Regan Noelle Kruse, LEAD ATTORNEY, Rafael Javier Valdes, Astigarraga Davis Mullins & Grossman, P.A., Miami, FL.\
For Sony Corporation of America, Counter Claimant: Abran J. Kean, LEAD ATTORNEY, PRO HAC VICE, Erise, IP, Greenwood Village, CO; Edward Maurice Mullins, LEAD ATTORNEY, Astigarraga Davis Mullins & Grossman, Miami, FL; Eric A. Buresh, LEAD ATTORNEY, PRO HAC VICE, Erise IP, Overland Park, KS; Rafael Javier Valdes, Astigarraga Davis Mullins & Grossman, P.A., Miami, FL.\
For Sony Computer Entertainment America LLC, Counter Claimant: Edward Maurice Mullins, LEAD ATTORNEY, Astigarraga Davis Mullins & Grossman, Miami, FL; Eric A. Buresh, LEAD ATTORNEY, PRO HAC VICE, Erise IP, Overland Park, KS; Rafael Javier Valdes, Astigarraga Davis Mullins & Grossman, P.A., Miami, FL. \
For Game Controller Technology LLC, Counter Defendant: John J. Edmonds, Stephen F. Schlather, LEAD ATTORNEYS, Collins, Edmonds, Pogorzelski, Schlather & Tower, PLLC, Houston, TX; Johnathan K. Yazdani, LEAD ATTORNEYS, PRO HAC VICE, Collins, Edmonds, Pogorzelski, Schlather & Tower, PLLC, Houston, TX; Shea N. Palavan, LEAD ATTORNEY, PRO HAC VICE, Collins, Edmonds, Pagorzelski, Schlather & Tower, PLLC, Houston, TX; Curtis David Carlson, Carlson & Lewittes PA, Miami, FL.
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 CECILIA M. ALTONAGA, UNITED STATES DISTRICT JUDGE.
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 CECILIA M. ALTONAGA \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 ORDER
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 THIS CAUSE came before the Court on Defendants, Sony Computer Entertainment [*1271] America LLC ("SCEA") and Sony Corporation of America's ("SCA['s]") (collectively, "Sony['s]") Motion to Transfer Venue to the Northern District of California . . . ("Motion") [ECF No. 31], filed October 24, 2013. The Motion requests this action be transferred pursuant to 28 U.S.C. section 1404(a) from this Court to the United States District Court for the Northern District of California. On November 18, 2013, Plaintiff, Game Controller Technology LLC ("GCT"), filed its Memorandum in Opposition . . . ("Opposition") [ECF No. 44], and on November 22, 2013 Sony filed a Reply [**2] Memorandum . . . ("Reply") [ECF No. 54]. The Court has carefully reviewed the parties' written submissions and applicable law.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 I. BACKGROUND 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 On August 5, 2013, GCT filed its Complaint [ECF No. 1] for patent infringement against Sony. GCT is a Florida limited liability company with its principal place of business in Fort Lauderdal e, Florida. (See id. \'b6 1). Wi-Lan, Inc. ("Wi-Lan") is a Canadian corporation with its principal place of business in Canada. (See Mot. 4). GCT is a wholly-owned and operated subsidiary of Wi-Lan. (See id. 4).\
Plaintiff alleges SCEA, a Delaware limited liability company with its principal place of business in California, and SCA, a New York corporation with its principal place of business in New York (see Compl. \'b6\'b6 2-3), committed acts of patent infringement in this District (see id. \'b6 13). Specifically, Sony "infring[ed], literally and/or under the doctrine of equivalents, [U.S. Patent No. 8,094,885 , entitled 'System and Method for Tracking an Electronic Device'] in this judicial district and elsewhere by making, using, offering for sale, importing, and/or selling, without authority from GCT the PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4 and PlayStation Move." (Compl. \'b6 13).\
The patent-in-suit relates to\
\pard\pardeftab720\li539\ri539\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 SCEA's Move Controller, which is a motion-sensing game controller that allows the player to interact with the [PlayStation 3] or [PlayStation 4] video game console through motion or positioning of the Move Controller. In other words, the Move Controller, either alone or in conjunction with the [PlayStation 3] or [PlayStation 4], is the Accused Product in this case.\
(Mot. 3-4 (alterations added; citations omitted)). Plaintiff also alleges Sony's infringement is willful and reckless. (See Compl. \'b6 17). As stated, Sony seeks transfer of the present case to the Northern District of California. (See generally Mot.).\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 II. LEGAL STANDARD \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Federal law provides "[f]or the convenience of parties and witnesses, in the interest of justice, a district court may transfer any civil action to any other district or division where it might have been brought." 28 U.S.C. \'a7 1404(a) . The purpose of section 1404(a) is to "avoid unnecessary inconvenience to the litigants, witnesses, and the public, and to conserve time, energy, and money." Cellularvision Tech. & Telecomm., L.P. v. Alltel Corp., 508 F. Supp. 2d 1186 , 1189 (S.D. Fla. 2007) (citation omitted). Courts have broad discretion "to adjudicate motions for transfer according to an 'individualized, case-by-case consideration of convenience and fairness.'" Stewart Org., Inc. v. Ricoh Corp., 487 U.S. 22 , 29 , 108 S. Ct. 2239 , 101 L. Ed. 2d 22 (1988) (quoting Van Dusen v. Barrack, 376 U.S. 612 , 622 , 84 S. Ct. 805 , 11 L. Ed. 2d 945 (1964)); accord Meterlogic, Inc. v. Copier Solutions, Inc., 185 F. Supp. 2d 1292 , 1299 (S.D. Fla. 2002).[*1272] \
Once a court finds an action could have been brought in the transferee forum, the court "must weigh various factors . . . to determine if a transfer . . . is justified." Windmere Corp. v. Remington Prods., Inc., 617 F. Supp. 8 , 10 (S.D. Fla. 1985) (citation omitted). Courts should consider at least the following private and public interest factors to determine whether transfer is appropriate:\
\pard\pardeftab720\li539\ri539\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 (1) the convenience of the witnesses; (2) the location of relevant documents [**3] and the relative ease of access to sources of proof; (3) the convenience of the parties; (4) the locus of operative facts; (5) the availability of process to compel the attendance of unwilling witnesses; (6) the relative means of the parties; (7) a forum's familiarity with the governing law; (8) the weight accorded a plaintiff's choice of forum; and (9) trial efficiency and the interests of justice, based on the totality of the circumstances.\
Manuel v. Convergys Corp., 430 F.3d 1132 , 1135 n.1 (11th Cir. 2005) (citation omitted); see also Meterlogic, 185 F. Supp. 2d at 1300 .\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 It is the movant's burden to establish transfer is warranted. See Cent. Money Mortg. Co. [IMC], Inc. v. Holman, 122 F. Supp. 2d 1345 , 1346 (M.D. Fla. 2000). This burden is high: a plaintiff's choice of forum "should not be disturbed unless it is clearly outweighed by other considerations." Robinson v. Giarmarco & Bill, P.C., 74 F.3d 253 , 260 (11th Cir. 1996) (citation and internal quotation marks omitted); accord Mason v. Smithkline Beecham Clinical Labs., 146 F. Supp. 2d 1355 , 1359 (S.D. Fla. 2001) ("Transfer can only be granted where the balance of convenience of the parties strongly favors the defendant." (emphasis in original; citations omitted)). However, "where the operative facts underlying the cause of action did not occur within the forum chosen by the Plaintiff, the choice of forum is entitled to less consideration." Windmere Corp., 617 F. Supp. at 10 (citations omitted).\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 III. ANALYSIS \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Sony asserts this action could have been brought in the Northern District of California and the balance of convenience highly favors transfer to the Northern District of California. (See generally Mot.). According to Sony the design, development, importation, distribution, and marketing of the accused products (the PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4, and PlayStation Move) occurred in the Northern District of California; all non-attorney witnesses are in the Northern District of California or Israel; no design, development, research, or testing of the accused products takes place in this District; and Plaintiff itself has a tenuous connection to Florida inasmuch as Wi-Lan is a Canadian company and GCT was created solely as a vehicle for Wi-Lan to file suit in this District. (See Mot. 2-3, 13-14). In its Opposition, Plaintiff insists all Sony has shown is that suit in the Northern District of California is more convenient for its own employees, and a party's own convenience is insufficient to warrant transfer; the non-party witnesses only duplicate the testimony of the party employees and are included solely to encourage transfer; and the time it takes for a case to get to trial in the Northern District of California is on average six months longer than it is in this District. (See Opp'n 2-3, 17). The Court balances Sony's and Plaintiff's assertions to determine whether transfer is appropriate.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 A. The Action Might Have Been Brought in the Northern District of California \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 An action might have been brought in a transferee district if that district has subject matter jurisdiction over the action, venue is proper, and the [*1273] parties are amenable to service of process in the [**4] transferee forum. See Meterlogic, 185 F. Supp. 2d at 1299 . GCT and Sony agree the case could have originally been brought in the Northern District of California. (See Mot. 12; Opp'n 9). As a patent-infringement action, the Northern District of California has subject matter jurisdiction under 28 U.S.C. sections 1331 and 1338 . Venue is proper because SCEA's principal place of business is in the Northern District of California and SCA has consented to venue in the Northern District of California. (See Mot. 12; Opp'n 9). Finally, SCEA and SCA are amenable to process issuing out of the Northern District of California. (See id.). This preliminary inquiry being satisfied, the Court turns to an examination of the remaining factors.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 B. Transfer Would Serve the Convenience of the Parties and the Interests of Justice \
1. The Convenience of the Witnesses \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 The convenience of the party and non-party witnesses is an important factor in the analysis whether to grant a motion to transfer.1 See Gonzalez v. Pirelli Tire, LLC, No. 07-80453-Civ, [2008 BL 296145], 2008 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 13492 , 2008 WL 516847 , at *2 (S.D. Fla. Feb. 22, 2008). Sony asserts the Northern District of California is a more convenient forum than this District because the SCEA employees responsible for the design, development, and testing of the accused products are in the Northern District of California, including many witnesses with information relevant to GCT's infringement claims. (See Mot. 12). Specifically, Richard Marks, one of "SCEA's critical trial witnesses," and the employee who led the research, design, development, and operation of the accused product, resides in the Northern District of California. (Id.;see also id. Ex. E [ECF No. 31-6]). SCEA's marketing, sales, and financial operations are also located in the Northern District of California. (See id.). Witnesses from these departments, particularly John Koller, identified as another of "SCEA's critical trial witnesses," will provide testimony on the distribution and marketing efforts, and "the significance of the accused functionality to selling the accused products." (Id.). GCT identifies no Florida employees whose testimony will be required in discovery or at trial. (See Opp'n 9-10).\
Admittedly, vague references to potential witnesses without specific reference to the accused products or an explanation of the relevant testimony to be provided are not sufficient to support transfer. See Wi-LAN USA, Inc. v. Alcatel-Lucent USA, Inc., No. 12-23568-Civ, [2013 BL 24633], 2013 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 11768 , 2013 WL 358385 , at *4 n.2 (S.D. Fla. Jan. 29, 2013). But here Sony specifically identifies five potential third-party witnesses and provides information regarding their involvement with the accused products and a description of the relevant testimony each will provide. (See Mot. 8-9, id. Ex. G [ECF No. 31-8]). In its initial disclosures, GCT did not identify any third-party witnesses located in this District. (See id. 13). GCT instead identified the inventor of the patent-in-suit, who lives in Israel, and the attorney responsible for the initial prosecution [*1274] of the patent-in-suit, who lives in the District of Columbia, as the key non-party [**5] witnesses. (See id.). Subsequently, GCT updated its disclosures to include a Fort Lauderdale attorney who will testify regarding the ownership of the asserted patent, an issue currently not in dispute and unlikely to be a focus requiring live testimony. (See id.). Of the identified third-party witnesses, five live in the Northern District of California, and only one lives in this District.\
In sum, several potential witnesses will be aided by a transfer of this action to the Northern District of California, compared to only one witness, the necessity of whose testimony is disputed, who will be inconvenienced by a transfer. On balance, this factor favors transfer.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 2. The Location of Relevant Documents and the Ease of Access to Proof \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 "In patent infringement cases, the bulk of the relevant evidence usually comes from the accused infringer." In re Genentech, Inc., 566 F.3d 1338 , 1345 (Fed. Cir. 2009) (citation and internal quotations marks omitted). Here all of the relevant documentary evidence is located in SCEA's headquarters in the Northern District of California, with none present in this District. (See Mot. 14). However, as Sony recognizes, in this age of electronic discovery, the burden to produce documents in Florida instead of in the Northern District of California has been reduced by technological advancements. (See id. (citation omitted)). The Court has previously found, and repeats here, that "[p]roducing documents and other files for litigation . . . is not usually a burdensome ordeal due to technological advancements, such as electronic document-imaging and retrieval." Kenneth F. Hackett, [2010 BL 179628], 2010 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 87697 , 2010 WL 3056600 , at *5 (citation omitted). Consequently, this factor does not support transfer.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 3. The Convenience of the Parties \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 It is undisputed that litigation in the Southern District of Florida will be substantially less convenient to Sony than litigation in the Northern District of California. (See Mot. 14; Opp'n 2). Sony's inconvenience must be weighed against any inconvenience caused to GCT if the action is transferred. See Burger King Corp. v. Thomas, 755 F. Supp. 1026 , 1030 (S.D. Fla. 1991). Since GCT chose to file suit in the Southern District of Florida, it is difficult to argue this forum is inconvenient to the Plaintiff. However, it must be noted that GCT has no identifiable employees in this District, and no office bears its name here. (See Mot. 16; Opp'n 4). Additionally, regardless of whether the litigation proceeds in this District or in the Northern District of California, GCT acknowledges its employees, the majority of whom are located in Canada, will be required to travel a significant distance. (See Opp'n 13). When one set of witnesses "will be required to travel a significant distance no matter where they testify . . . . [and] there are a substantial number of witnesses residing within the transferee venue who would be unnecessarily inconvenienced by having to travel away from home" this factor should favor transfer. In re Genentech, Inc., 566 F.3d at 1344 (citations omitted). As all relevant SCEA employees are located in the Northern District [**6] of California and any relevant GCT employees will be required to travel a significant distance regardless of where the case is tried this factor favors transfer.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 4. The Locus of Operative Facts \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Sony argues the locus of operative facts is in the Northern District of California where the research, design, and development of the accused products occurred. [*1275] (See Mot. 15). "[W]here the operative facts underlying the cause of action did not occur within the forum chosen by the Plaintiff, the choice of forum is entitled to less consideration. Several district courts have held that the 'center of gravity' for a patent infringement case is where the accused product was designed and developed." Motorola Mobility, Inc. v. Microsoft Corp., 804 F. Supp. 2d 1271 , 1276 (S.D. Fla. 2011) (footnote call number, citations, and internal quotation marks omitted). "[T]he sale of an accused product offered nationwide does not give rise to a substantial interest in any single venue." In re Acer America Corp., 626 F.3d 1252 , 1256 (Fed. Cir. 2010) (citation omitted). GCT argues Sony's sale of the accused products in this District is sufficient to establish a locus of operative facts in the Southern District of Florida. (See Opp'n 14-15). The Court rejects this argument and finds the locus of operative facts is in the Northern District of California. Thus this factor favors transfer to the Northern District of California.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 5. The Availability of Process to Compel Unwilling Witnesses \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Sony names several potential third-party witnesses who reside in the Northern District of California and would be subject to the subpoena power of the transferee court. (See Mot. 15-16). Further, Sony points "to a specific [third-party] witness who . . . indicated via affidavit . . . his unwillingness to cooperate," but resides in the Northern District of California and could thus be compelled to testify by the transferee court. (Opp'n 15). GCT acknowledges it is unclear which potential third-party witnesses may be important to trial, but argues that Sony "did nothing more than provide . . . cumulative witness[es]" while failing to show how they will provide any relevant information. (Id. 15-16). Not true. Sony provides detailed descriptions regarding the potential testimony of the named third-party witnesses. (See Mot. 7-8, Mot. Ex. G [ECF No. 31-8]). In addition "third party, neutral prior art witnesses can be important . . . even if they have the exact same knowledge as party witnesses for the practical reason that third-party witnesses are not subject to attack on bias grounds based on their employment with a named defendant." (Reply 6).\
Meanwhile, the Court only has subpoena power over one of the disclosed third-party witnesses, an in-house senior legal counsel for GCT's parent company Wi-Lan. (See Mot. 13, 16). "[C]ourts generally transfer cases when important witnesses can not be compelled to testify in the forum, but could be subpoenaed in the transferee court." Wi-LAN USA, Inc. v. Apple Inc., No. 12-cv-24318-KMM, [2013 BL 90847], 2013 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 47509 , 2013 WL 1343535 , at *4 (S.D. Fla. Apr. 2, 2013) (alteration in original; internal quotation marks and citation omitted). The Northern [**7] District of California is the preferable venue for the exercise of subpoena power over the specifically identified third party witnesses. Therefore, this factor favors transfer.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 6. The Relative Means of the Parties \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 While GCT acknowledges "[t]he parties' relative means are irrelevant because it will be costly and inefficient for both parties to litigate this case in the Southern District of Florida," it argues as "a fledgling company . . . it would suffer a greater burden than either SCEA or SCA if this case was transferred." (Opp'n 16 (citation omitted)). GCT does not claim it would be unable to bear the costs of litigation in the event of a transfer and fails to address why it would be cheaper for it to litigate the case in this District. (Id.). Therefore, this factor is neutral.[*1276] \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 7. The Forum's Familiarity with the Governing Law \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 The parties agree this factor is neutral. (See Mot. 17; Opp'n 16).\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 8. Weight Accorded a Plaintiff's Choice of Forum \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 "[A] plaintiff's choice of forum should not be disturbed unless it is clearly outweighed by other considerations." Robinson, 74 F.3d at 260 (citation and internal quotation marks omitted). However, "where the operative facts underlying the cause of action did not occur within the forum chosen by the plaintiff, the choice of forum is entitled to 'less consideration.'" Trace-Wilco, Inc. v. Symantec Corp., No. 08-80877-Civ, [2009 BL 34763], 2009 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 13646 , 2009 WL 455432 , at *2 (S.D. Fla. Feb. 23, 2009) (citations omitted). Furthermore, where a patentee attempts to influence venue by establishing "recent" and "ephemeral" connections to a district, the choice of forum is also entitled to less consideration. In re Microsoft Corp., 630 F.3d 1361 , 1365 (Fed. Cir. 2011) (citation omitted).\
GCT incorporated in Florida in January 2013 and does not have any office space or employees separate and distinct from its parent company, Wi-Lan. (See Opp'n 4). As GCT admits, it chose this District partly because the federal district courts here participate in the federal patent pilot program and offer an expedited docket as compared to other districts, thereby reducing GCT's business expenses. (See id.). As the Court has stated before in regard to another of Wi-Lan's subsidiaries, GCT "appears to have been created solely for the purpose of filing cases in the Southern District of Florida." Wi-LAN USA, Inc., [2013 BL 24633], 2013 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 11768 , 2013 WL 358385 , at *5 (citation and internal quotation marks omitted). Consequently, GCT's Florida existence provides less than persuasive reason to deny transfer to the Northern District of California, where a majority of the alleged infringing activity takes place. See, e.g., Compression Tech. Solutions LLC v. EMC Corp., No. 4:11cv1579 TCM, [2012 BL 85794], 2012 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 48887 , 2012 WL 1188576 , at *8 (E.D. Mo. Apr. 6, 2012) (granting motion to transfer and citing cases where plaintiff's recent incorporation in forum without any other meaningful activity negated deference generally given a plaintiff's choice); Shared Memory Graphics LLC v. Apple Inc., No. 5:09CV5128 BSM, 2010 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 135909 , 2010 WL 5151612 , at *3 (W.D. Ark. May 27, 2010) ("Although [plaintiff] is incorporated in Arkansas, it had no [**8] role in the development of the patents involved . . . . Further, the record does not indicate that [plaintiff] has any relevant employees or documents in the Western District of Arkansas." (alterations added; citation omitted)).\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 9. Trial Efficiency and the Interests of Justice \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Sony provides statistics showing the average time for a case to reach its conclusion is less than two months more in the Northern District of California than in this District. (See Mot. 17). Plaintiff disputes the accuracy of Sony's numbers, albeit without providing a reference to source documentation, insisting this District is more than six months faster than the Northern District of California. (See Opp'n 17). Plaintiff also asserts, without providing source documentation, the docket of the Northern District of California is significantly more congested than the docket of this District. (See id.). Unable to verify the accuracy of Plaintiff's claims, this factor is either neutral or slightly favors retention of the suit.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 IV. CONCLUSION \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 The Court now balances all of these factors. The Court agrees with Sony that the private interest factors pertaining to witness convenience, party convenience, locus of operative facts, and [*1277] availability of compulsory process favor transfer to the Northern District of California. Additionally, the Court finds compelling that Plaintiffs presence in this District is recent and ephemeral, deserving of less consideration than a domestic plaintiff would normally be entitled to. The Court also agrees some of the factors considered \'97 such as the location of relevant documents, the parties' relative means, and the forum's familiarity with governing law are neutral, weighing neither in favor of nor against transfer, while the public interest factor of trial efficiency might point to retention of the case in this District. This places five of the factors in Sony's favor, three of the factors as neutral, and one potentially in GCT's favor. On this record, the Court concludes that Sony has carried its high burden of showing the balance of convenience strongly favors transfer. See Cent. Money Mortg. Co., 122 F. Supp. 2d at 1346 ; Mason, 146 F. Supp. 2d at 1359 .\
Being fully advised, it is\
ORDERED AND ADJUDGED that the Motion to Transfer Venue to the Northern District of California Under 28 U.S.C. \'a7 1404(a) [ECF No. 31] is GRANTED. The Clerk is instructed to transfer this case to the United States District Court for the Northern District of California and mark this case as CLOSED in this District.\
DONE AND ORDERED in Miami, Florida, this 10th day of January, 2014.\
/s/ Cecilia M. Altonaga \
CECILIA M. ALTONAGA \
UNITED STATES DISTRICT JUDGE \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0  \uc0\u8232 \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 1\
GCT asserts "[c]ourts in this circuit have repeatedly held that the location of party witnesses is 'practically irrelevant' when analyzing a motion under Section 1404 ." (Opp'n 10 (citing Kenneth F. Hackett & Assocs., Inc. v. GE Capital Info. Tech. Solutions, Inc., No. 10-20715-Civ, [2010 BL 179628], 2010 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 87697 , 2010 WL 3056600 , at *4 (S.D. Fla. Aug. 4, 2010))). However, this is an overly broad interpretation of the holding of Kenneth F. Hackett, which narrowly applies "[w]here a transfer merely shifts the inconvenience from one party to another." Kenneth F. Hackett, [2010 BL 179628], 2010 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 87697 , 2010 WL 3056600 , at *4 (alteration in original; citations and internal quotation marks omitted).\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb566\sa1133\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0          
\f0\fs42 General Information\

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 Judge(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 CECILIA MARIA ALTONAGA\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Related Docket(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 1:13-cv-22795 (S.D. Fla.);\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Topic(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Civil Procedure; Patent Law\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Industries\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Electronics\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Date Filed\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 2014-01-10 00:00:00\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Parties\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 GAME CONTROLLER TECHNOLOGY LLC, Plaintiff, v. SONY COMPUTER ENTERTAINMENT AMERICA LLC and SONY CORPORATION OF AMERICA, Defendants.\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Court\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 United States District Court for the Southern District of Florida\cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\li674\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\fs20 \cf0 Pagination \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 *
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 F. Supp. 2d 
\f1\fs24 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\li674\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 United States District Court, S.D. Florida \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 GAME CONTROLLER TECHNOLOGY LLC, Plaintiff, v. SONY COMPUTER ENTERTAINMENT AMERICA LLC and Sony Corporation of America, Defendants. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Case No. 13-22795-CIV. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 January 10, 2014. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
[EDITORS' NOTE: THIS PAGE CONTAINED HEADNOTES AND HEADNOTES ARE NOT AN OFFICIAL PRODUCT OF THE COURT, THEREFORE THEY ARE NOT DISPLAYED.] [*1270] 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 John J. Edmonds, Johnathan K. Yazdani, Shea N. Palavan, Stephen F. Schlather, Collins, Edmonds, Pagorzelski, Schlather & Tower, PLLC, Houston, TX, Curtis David Carlson, Ronald Lewittes, Carlson & Lewittes PA, Miami, FL, for Plaintiff. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Edward Maurice Mullins, Regan Noelle Kruse, Rafael Javier Valdes, Cristina M. Suarez, Astigarraga Davis Mullins & Grossman, Miami, FL, Eric A. Buresh, Erise IP, Overland Park, KS, Abran J. Kean, Erise, IP, Greenwood Village, CO, for Defendants. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 ORDER 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\
Cecilia M. Altonaga, District Judge 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\
THIS CAUSE came before the Court on Defendants, Sony Computer Entertainment [*1271] America LLC ("SCEA") and Sony Corporation of America's ("SCA['s]") (collectively, "Sony[s]") Motion to Transfer Venue to the Northern District of California . . . ("Motion") [ECF No. 31], filed October 24, 2013. The Motion requests this action be transferred pursuant to 28 U.S.C. section 1404(a) from this Court to the United States District Court for the Northern District of California. On November 18, 2013, Plaintiff, Game Controller Technology LLC ("GCT"), filed its Memorandum in Opposition . . . ("Opposition") [ECF No. 44], and on November 22, 2013 Sony filed a Reply Memorandum . . . ("Reply") [ECF No. 54]. The Court has carefully reviewed the parties' written submissions and applicable law. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 I. BACKGROUND
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 On August 5, 2013, GCT filed its Complaint [ECF No. 1] for patent infringement against Sony. GCT is a Florida limited liability company with its principal place of business in Fort Lauderdale, Florida. (See  id. \'b6 1). Wi-Lan, Inc. ("Wi-Lan") is a Canadian corporation with its principal place of business in Canada. (See Mot. 4). GCT is a wholly-owned and operated subsidiary of Wi-Lan. (See  id. 4). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Plaintiff alleges SCEA, a Delaware limited liability company with its principal place of business in California, and SCA, a New York corporation with its principal place of business in New York (see Compl. \'b6\'b6 2-3), committed acts of patent infringement in this District (see id. \'b6 13). Specifically, Sony "infringe[d], literally and/or under the doctrine of equivalents, [U.S. Patent No. 8,094,885, entitled 'System and Method for Tracking an Electronic Device'] in this judicial district and elsewhere by making, using, offering for sale, importing, and/or selling, without authority from GCT the PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4 and PlayStation Move." (Compl. \'b6 13). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The patent-in-suit relates to 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 SCEA's Move Controller, which is a motion-sensing game controller that allows the player to interact with the [PlayStation 3] or [PlayStation 4] video game console through motion or positioning of the Move Controller. In other words, the Move Controller, either alone or in conjunction with the [PlayStation 3] or [PlayStation 4], is the Accused Product in this case. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 (Mot. 3-4 (alterations added; citations omitted)). Plaintiff also alleges Sony's infringement is willful and reckless. (See Compl. \'b6 17). As stated, Sony seeks transfer of the present case to the Northern District of California. (See generally Mot.). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 II. LEGAL STANDARD
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Federal law provides "[f]or the convenience of parties and witnesses, in the interest of justice, a district court may transfer any civil action to any other district or division where it might have been brought." 28 U.S.C. \'a7 1404(a). The purpose of section 1404(a) is to "avoid unnecessary inconvenience to the litigants, witnesses, and the public, and to conserve time, energy, and money." Cellularvision Tech. & Telecomms., L.P. v. AlltelCorp., 508 F.Supp.2d 1186, 1189 (S.D. Fla. 2007) (citation omitted). Courts have broad discretion "to adjudicate motions for transfer according to an 'individualized, case-by-case consideration of convenience and fairness.'" Stewart Org., Inc. v. Ricoh Corp., 487 U.S. 22, 29, 108 S.Ct. 2239, 101 L.Ed.2d 22 (1988) (quoting Van Dusen v. Barrack, 376 U.S. 612, 622, 84 S.Ct. 805, 11 L.Ed.2d 945 (1964)); accord Meterlogic, Inc. v. CopierSolutions, Inc., 185 F.Supp.2d 1292, 1299 (S.D. Fla. 2002). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [*1272] Once a court finds an action could have been brought in the transferee forum, the court "must weigh various factors . . . to determine if a transfer . . . is justified." Windmere Corp. v. Remington Prods., Inc., 617 F.Supp. 8, 10 (S.D. Fla. 1985) (citation omitted). Courts should consider at least the following private and public interest factors to determine whether transfer is appropriate: 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 (1) the convenience of the witnesses; (2) the location of relevant documents and the relative ease of access to sources of proof; (3) the convenience of the parties; (4) the locus of operative facts; (5) the availability of process to compel the attendance of unwilling witnesses; (6) the relative means of the parties; (7) a forum's familiarity with the governing law; (8) the weight accorded a plaintiffs choice of forum; and (9) trial efficiency and the interests of justice, based on the totality of the circumstances. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Manuel v. Convergys Corp., 430 F.3d 1132, 1135 n. 1 (11th Cir. 2005) (citation omitted); see also Meterlogic, 185 F.Supp.2d at 1300. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 It is the movant's burden to establish transfer is warranted. See Cent.Money Mortg. Co. [IMC], Inc. v. Holman, 122 F.Supp.2d 1345, 1346 (M.D. Fla. 2000). This burden is high: a plaintiffs choice of forum "should not be disturbed unless it is clearly outweighed by other considerations." Robinsonv. Giarrnarco & Bill, P.C., 74 F.3d 253, 260 (11th Cir. 1996) (citation and internal quotation marks omitted); accord Mason v. Smithkline BeechamClinical Labs., 146 F.Supp.2d 1355, 1359 (S.D. Fla. 2001) ("Transfer can only be granted where the balance of convenience of the parties stronglyfavors the defendant." (emphasis in original; citations omitted)). However, "where the operative facts underlying the cause of action did not occur within the forum chosen by the Plaintiff, the choice of forum is entitled to less consideration." Windmere Corp., 617 F.Supp. at 10 (citations omitted). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 III. ANALYSIS
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Sony asserts this action could have been brought in the Northern District of California and the balance of convenience highly favors transfer to the Northern District of California. (See generally Mot.). According to Sony the design, development, importation, distribution, and marketing of the accused products (the PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4, and PlayStation Move) occurred in the Northern District of California; all non-attorney witnesses are in the Northern District of California or Israel; no design, development, research, or testing of the accused products takes place in this District; and Plaintiff itself has a tenuous connection to Florida inasmuch as Wi-Lan is a Canadian company and GCT was created solely as a vehicle for Wi-Lan to file suit in this District. (See Mot. 2-3, 13-14). In its Opposition, Plaintiff insists all Sony has shown is that suit in the Northern District of California is more convenient for its own employees, and a party's own convenience is insufficient to warrant transfer; the non-party witnesses only duplicate the testimony of the party employees and are included solely to encourage transfer; and the time it takes for a case to get to trial in the Northern District of California is on average six months longer than it is in this District. (See Opp'n 2-3, 17). The Court balances Sony's and Plaintiffs assertions to determine whether transfer is appropriate. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 A. The Action Might Have Been Brought in the Northern District ofCalifornia
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 An action might have been brought in a transferee district if that district has subject matter jurisdiction over the action, venue is proper, and the [*1273]parties are amenable to service of process in the transferee forum. SeeMeterlogic, 185 F.Supp.2d at 1299. GCT and Sony agree the case could have originally been brought in the Northern District of California. (See Mot. 12; Opp'n 9). As a patent-infringement action, the Northern District of California has subject matter jurisdiction under 28 U.S.C. sections 1331 and 1338. Venue is proper because SCEA's principal place of business is in the Northern District of California and SCA has consented to venue in the Northern District of California. (See Mot. 12; Opp'n 9). Finally, SCEA and SCA are amenable to process issuing out of the Northern District of California. (See id.). This preliminary inquiry being satisfied, the Court turns to an examination of the remaining factors. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 B. Transfer Would Serve the Convenience of the Parties and the Interestsof Justice
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 1. The Convenience of the Witnesses
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The convenience of the party and non-party witnesses is an important factor in the analysis whether to grant a motion to transfer.[fn1] SeeGonzalez v. Pirelli Tire, LLC, No. 07-80453-Civ, [2008 BL 296145], 2008 WL 516847, at *2 (S.D. Fla. Feb. 22, 2008). Sony asserts the Northern District of California is a more convenient forum than this District because the SCEA employees responsible for the design, development, and testing of the accused products are in the Northern District of California, including many witnesses with information relevant to GCT's infringement claims. (See Mot. 12). Specifically, Richard Marks, one of "SCEA's critical trial witnesses," and the employee who led the research, design, development, and operation of the accused product, resides in the Northern District of California. ( Id.; seealso id. Ex. E [ECF No. 31-6]). SCEA's marketing, sales, and financial operations are also located in the Northern District of California. (See id.). Witnesses from these departments, particularly John Roller, identified as another of "SCEA's critical trial witnesses," will provide testimony on the distribution and marketing efforts, and "the significance of the accused functionality to selling the accused products." ( Id.). GCT identifies no Florida employees whose testimony will be required in discovery or at trial. (-See Opp'n 9-10). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Admittedly, vague references to potential witnesses without specific reference to the accused products or an explanation of the relevant testimony to be provided are not sufficient to support transfer. See Wi-LanUSA Inc. v. Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc., No. 12-23568-Civ, [2013 BL 24633], 2013 WL 358385, at *4 n. 2 (S.D. Fla. Jan. 29, 2013). But here Sony specifically identifies five potential third-party witnesses and provides information regarding their involvement with the accused products and a description of the relevant testimony each will provide. (-See Mot. 8-9, id. Ex. G [ECF No. 31-8]). In its initial disclosures, GCT did not identify any third-party witnesses located in this District. (See id. 13). GCT instead identified the inventor of the patent-in-suit, who lives in Israel, and the attorney responsible for the initial prosecution [*1274] of the patent-in-suit, who lives in the District of Columbia, as the key non-party witnesses. (See id.). Subsequently, GCT updated its disclosures to include a Fort Lauderdale attorney who will testify regarding the ownership of the asserted patent, an issue currently not in dispute and unlikely to be a focus requiring live testimony. (See id.). Of the identified third-party witnesses, five live in the Northern District of California, and only one lives in this District. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 In sum, several potential witnesses will be aided by a transfer of this action to the Northern District of California, compared to only one witness, the necessity of whose testimony is disputed, who will be inconvenienced by a transfer. On balance, this factor favors transfer. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 2. The Location of Relevant Documents and the Ease of Access to Proof
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 "In patent infringement cases, the bulk of the relevant evidence usually comes from the accused infringer." hi re Genentech, Inc., 566 F.3d 1338, 1345 (Fed. Cir. 2009) (citation and internal quotations marks omitted). Here all of the relevant documentary evidence is located in SCEA's headquarters in the Northern District of California, with none present in this District. (See Mot. 14). However, as Sony recognizes, in this age of electronic discovery, the burden to produce documents in Florida instead of in the Northern District of California has been reduced by technological advancements. (See id. (citation omitted)). The Court has previously found, and repeats here, that "[producing documents and other files for litigation . . . is not usually a burdensome ordeal due to technological advancements, such as electronic document-imaging and retrieval." Kenneth F. Hackett, [2010 BL 179628], 2010 WL 3056600, at *5 (citation omitted). Consequently, this factor does not support transfer. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 3. The Convenience of the Parties
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 It is undisputed that litigation in the Southern District of Florida will be substantially less convenient to Sony than litigation in the Northern District of California. (See Mot. 14; Opp'n 2). Sony's inconvenience must be weighed against any inconvenience caused to GCT if the action is transferred. See Burger King Corp. v. Thomas, 755 F.Supp. 1026, 1030 (S.D. Fla. 1991). Since GCT chose to file suit in the Southern District of Florida, it is difficult to argue this forum is inconvenient to the Plaintiff. However, it must be noted that GCT has no identifiable employees in this District, and no office bears its name here. (See Mot. 16; Opp'n 4). Additionally, regardless of whether the litigation proceeds in this District or in the Northern District of California, GCT acknowledges its employees, the majority of whom are located in Canada, will be required to travel a significant distance. (See Opp'n 13). When one set of witnesses "will be required to travel a significant distance no matter where they testify. . . . [and] there are a substantial number of witnesses residing within the transferee venue who would be unnecessarily inconvenienced by having to travel away from home" this factor should favor transfer. In re Genentech,Inc., 566 F.3d at 1344 (citations omitted). As all relevant SCEA employees are located in the Northern District of California and any relevant GCT employees will be required to travel a significant distance regardless of where the case is tried this factor favors transfer. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 4. The Locus of Operative Facts
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Sony argues the locus of operative facts is in the Northern District of California where the research, design, and development of the accused products occurred. ([*1275] See Mot. 15). "[W]here the operative facts underlying the cause of action did not occur within the forum chosen by the Plaintiff, the choice of forum is entitled to less consideration. Several district courts have held that the 'center of gravity' for a patent infringement case is where the accused product was designed and developed." Motorola Mobility, Inc. v.Microsoft Corp., 804 F.Supp.2d 1271, 1276 (S.D. Fla. 2011) (footnote call number, citations, and internal quotation marks omitted). "[T]he sale of an accused product offered nationwide does not give rise to a substantial interest in any single venue." In re Acer America Corp., 626 F.3d 1252, 1256(Fed. Cir. 2010) (citation omitted). GCT argues Sony's sale of the accused products in this District is sufficient to establish a locus of operative facts in the Southern District of Florida. (See Opp'n 14-15). The Court rejects this argument and finds the locus of operative facts is in the Northern District of California. Thus this factor favors transfer to the Northern District of California. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 5. The Availability of Process to Compel Unwilling Witnesses
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Sony names several potential third-party witnesses who reside in the Northern District of California and would be subject to the subpoena power of the transferee court. (See Mot. 15-16). Further, Sony points "to a specific [third-party] witness who . . . indicated via affidavit . . . his unwillingness to cooperate," but resides in the Northern District of California and could thus be compelled to testify by the transferee court. (Opp'n 15). GCT acknowledges it is unclear which potential third-party witnesses may be important to trial, but argues that Sony "did nothing more than provide . . . cumulative witnesses]" while failing to show how they will provide any relevant information. ( Id. 15-16). Not true. Sony provides detailed descriptions regarding the potential testimony of the named third-party witnesses. (See Mot. 7-8, Mot. Ex. G [ECF No. 31-8]). In addition "third party, neutral prior art witnesses can be important . . . even if they have the exact same knowledge as party witnesses for the practical reason that third-party witnesses are not subject to attack on bias grounds based on their employment with a named defendant." (Reply 6). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Meanwhile, the Court only has subpoena power over one of the disclosed third-party witnesses, an in-house senior legal counsel for GCT's parent company Wi-Lan. (See Mot. 13, 16). "[C]ourts generally transfer cases when important witnesses can not be compelled to testify in the forum, but could be subpoenaed in the transferee court." Wi-LAN USA, Inc. v. Apple Inc., No. 12-cv-24318-KMM, [2013 BL 90847], 2013 WL 1343535, at *4 (S.D. Fla. Apr. 2, 2013) (alteration in original; internal quotation marks and citation omitted). The Northern District of California is the preferable venue for the exercise of subpoena power over the specifically identified third party witnesses. Therefore, this factor favors transfer. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 6. The Relative Means of the Parties
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 While GCT acknowledges "[t]he parties' relative means are irrelevant because it will be costly and inefficient for both parties to litigate this case in the Southern District of Florida," it argues as "a fledgling company . . . it would suffer a greater burden than either SCEA or SCA if this case was transferred." (Opp'n 16 (citation omitted)). GCT does not claim it would be unable to bear the costs of litigation in the event of a transfer and fails to address why it would be cheaper for it to litigate the case in this District. ( Id.). Therefore, this factor is neutral. [*1276] 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 7. The Forum's Familiarity with the Governing Law
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The parties agree this factor is neutral. (See Mot. 17; Opp'n 16). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 8. Weight Accorded a Plaintiffs Choice of Forum
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 "[A] plaintiffs choice of forum should not be disturbed unless it is clearly outweighed by other considerations." Robinson, 74 F.3d at 260(citation and internal quotation marks omitted). However, "where the operative facts underlying the cause of action did not occur within the forum chosen by the plaintiff, the choice of forum is entitled to 'less consideration.'" Troxe-Wilco, Inc. v. Symantec Corp., No. 08-80877-Civ, [2009 BL 34763], 2009 WL 455432, at *2 (S.D. Fla. Feb. 23, 2009) (citations omitted). Furthermore, where a patentee attempts to influence venue by establishing "recent" and "ephemeral" connections to a district, the choice of forum is also entitled to less consideration. In re Microsoft Corp., 630 F.3d 1361, 1365 (Fed. Cir. 2011) (citation omitted). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 GCT incorporated in Florida in January 2013 and does not have any office space or employees separate and distinct from its parent company, Wi-Lan. (See Opp'n 4). As GCT admits, it chose this District partly because the federal district courts here participate in the federal patent pilot program and offer an expedited docket as compared to other districts, thereby reducing GCT's business expenses. (See id.). As the Court has stated before in regard to another of Wi-Lan's subsidiaries, GCT "appears to have been created solely for the purpose of filing cases in the Southern District of Florida." Wi-Lan USA, Inc., [2013 BL 24633], 2013 WL 358385, at *5 (citation and internal quotation marks omitted). Consequently, GCT's Florida existence provides less than persuasive reason to deny transfer to the Northern District of California, where a majority of the alleged infringing activity takes place. See, e.g., Compression Tech. Solutions LLC v. EMC Corp., No. 4:11cv1579 TCM, [2012 BL 85794], 2012 WL 1188576, at *8 (E.D. Mo. Apr. 6, 2012) (granting motion to transfer and citing cases where plaintiffs recent incorporation in forum without any other meaningful activity negated deference generally given a plaintiffs choice); Shared Memory Graphics LLC v. Apple Inc., No. 5:09CV5128 BSM, 2010 WL 5151612, at *3 (W.D. Ark. May 27, 2010) ("Although [plaintiff] is incorporated in Arkansas, it had no role in the development of the patents involved. . . . Further, the record does not indicate that [plaintiff] has any relevant employees or documents in the Western District of Arkansas." (alterations added; citation omitted)). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 9. Trial Efficiency and the Interests of Justice
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Sony provides statistics showing the average time for a case to reach its conclusion is less than two months more in the Northern District of California than in this District. (See Mot. 17). Plaintiff disputes the accuracy of Sony's numbers, albeit without providing a reference to source documentation, insisting this District is more than six months faster than the Northern District of California. (See Opp'n 17). Plaintiff also asserts, without providing source documentation, the docket of the Northern District of California is significantly more congested than the docket of this District. (See id.). Unable to verify the accuracy of Plaintiffs claims, this factor is either neutral or slightly favors retention of the suit. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 IV. CONCLUSION
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The Court now balances all of these factors. The Court agrees with Sony that the private interest factors pertaining to witness convenience, party convenience, locus of operative facts, and [*1277]availability of compulsory process favor transfer to the Northern District of California. Additionally, the Court finds compelling that Plaintiffs presence in this District is recent and ephemeral, deserving of less consideration than a domestic plaintiff would normally be entitled to. The Court also agrees some of the factors considered \'97 such as the location of relevant documents, the parties' relative means, and the forum's familiarity with governing law are neutral, weighing neither in favor of nor against transfer, while the public interest factor of trial efficiency might point to retention of the case in this District. This places five of the factors in Sony's favor, three of the factors as neutral, and one potentially in GCT's favor. On this record, the Court concludes that Sony has carried its high burden of showing the balance of convenience strongly favors transfer. See Cent. Money Mortg. Co., 122 F.Supp.2d at 1346; Mason, 146 F.Supp.2d at 1359. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Being fully advised, it is 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 ORDERED AND ADJUDGED that the Motion to Transfer Venue to the Northern District of California Under 28 U.S.C. \'a7 1404(a) [ECF No. 31] is GRANTED. The Clerk is instructed to transfer this case to the United States District Court for the Northern District of California and mark this case as CLOSEDin this District. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn1] GCT asserts "[c]ourts in this circuit have repeatedly held that the location of party witnesses is 'practically irrelevant' when analyzing a motion under Section 1404." (Opp'n 10 (citing Kenneth F. Hackett & Assocs.,Inc. v. GE Capital Info. Tech. Solutions, Inc., No. 10-20715-Civ, [2010 BL 179628], 2010 WL 3056600, at *4 (S.D. Fla. Aug. 4, 2010))). However, this is an overly broad interpretation of the holding of Kenneth F. Hackett, which narrowly applies "[w]here a transfer merely shifts the inconvenience from one party to another." Kenneth F. Hackett, [2010 BL 179628], 2010 WL 3056600, at *4 (alteration in original; citations and internal quotation marks omitted). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb566\sa1133\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0          
\f0\fs42 General Information\

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 Judge(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 CECILIA MARIA ALTONAGA\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Related Docket(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 1:13-cv-22795 (S.D. Fla.);\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Topic(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Civil Procedure; Patent Law\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Industries\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Science & Technology\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Date Filed\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 2014-01-10 00:00:00\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Parties\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 GAME CONTROLLER TECHNOLOGY LLC, Plaintiff, v. SONY COMPUTER ENTERTAINMENT AMERICA LLC and Sony Corporation of America, Defendants.\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Case Type\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 SO\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Court\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 United States District Court for the Southern District of Florida\cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\li674\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\fs20 \cf0 Pagination \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 *
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 BL
\f1\fs24 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\li674\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 United States District Court, S.D. Florida \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 WI-LAN USA, INC., and WI-LAN, INC., Plaintiffs, v. ALCATEL-LUCENT USA INC., Defendant. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 CASE NO. 12-23568-CIV-ALTONAGA/Simonton \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 January 29, 2013. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
ORDER 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\
Cecilia M. Altonaga, District Judge 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\
THIS CAUSE came before the Court on Defendant, Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc.'s ("Alcatel['s]") Motion to Transfer Pursuant to 28 U.S.C. Section 1404(a) ("Motion") [ECF No. 34], filed December 18, 2012. The Motion requests this action be transferred pursuant to section 1404(a) from this Court to the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey. The Court has carefully reviewed the parties' written submissions and applicable law. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 I. BACKGROUND
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 On October 1, 2012, Plaintiffs, Wi-Lan USA, Inc. ("Wi-Lan USA") and Wi-Lan, Inc. ("Wi-Lan"), filed their Complaint [ECF No. 1] for patent infringement against Alcatel. Wi-Lan USA is a Florida corporation with its principal place of business in Miami, Florida. (See id. \'b6 1). Wi-Lan is a Canadian corporation with its principal place of business in Canada. (Seeid.). WiLan USA is a wholly owned subsidiary of Wi-Lan. (See id.). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Plaintiffs allege Alcatel, a Delaware corporation with its principal place of business in New Jersey (see id. \'b6 2), maintains offices in this judicial district (see id. \'b6\'b6 7-18), and that it has committed acts of patent infringement in this district (see id. \'b6 19). Specifically, Alcatel makes, uses, offers for sale, imports and sells products compliant with the "3GPP LTE standard," including but not limited to the "9100 Multi-Standard Base Station and 9926 Distributed Base Station" (collectively "the accused Alcatel products"). (Id. \'b6 21). The accused Alcatel products support at least "Release 8" of the 3GPP LTE standard. (Seeid. \'b6 22). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Count I of the Complaint alleges infringement of Wi-Lan's U.S. Patent No. 8,027,298 (the "'298 Patent"), entitled "Methods and Systems for Transmission of Multiple Modulated Signals over Wireless Networks." (Id. \'b6 24). Wi-Lan USA "holds certain rights" under the '298 Patent. (Id.). Plaintiffs allege Alcatel is infringing this patent in this judicial district and elsewhere by making, using, offering for sale, importing, and selling without authority from WiLan the Alcatel products, which fall within the scope of one or more claims of the '298 Patent. (See id. \'b6 25). Count II alleges the same claim, except as to Patent No. 8,249,014 (the "'014" Patent"); and Count III makes the same claim as to Patent No. 8,229,437 (the "'437 Patent") (all three patents are referred to as the "patents-in-suit"). (See id. 5-6). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The patents-in-suit relate to base stations that practice the Long Term Evolution ("LTE" or "4G") standard for cellular telephony. (See Mem. in Opp'n ("Opp'n") 2 [ECF No. 42]). Base stations allow cellphones and modems to communicate with a carrier's network. (See id.). The patents-in-suit allow the base stations to more efficiently allocate bandwidth among the devices. (See id.). In their proposed First Amended Complaint [ECF No. 47-1], Plaintiffs add allegations that Alcatel's infringement is willful and deliberate. (See generally Am. Compl.). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 On November 15, 2012, Alcatel filed its Answer and Counterclaims [ECF No. 17], raising as an issue the inconvenience of this forum [*2] for adjudication of the parties' dispute. (See id. \'b6 6). Nevertheless, Alcatel filed a six-count Counterclaim seeking declaratory judgments of non-infringement and invalidity as to the patents-in-suit. As stated, Alcatel filed this Motion on December 18, 2012, seeking transfer of the case to New Jersey. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 II. LEGAL STANDARD
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Federal law provides "[f]or the convenience of parties and witnesses, in the interest of justice, a district court may transfer any civil action to any other district or division where it might have been brought." 28 U.S.C. \'a7 1404(a). The purpose of section 1404(a) is to "avoid unnecessary inconvenience to the litigants, witnesses, and the public, and to conserve time, energy, and money." Cellularvision Tech. & Telecomms., L.P. v. AlltelCorp., 508 F.Supp.2d 1186, 1188-89 (S.D. Fla. 2007) (citations omitted). Courts have broad discretion "to adjudicate motions for transfer according to an 'individualized, case-by-case consideration of convenience and fairness.'" Stewart Org., Inc. v. Ricoh Corp., 487 U.S. 22, 29 (1988) (quoting Van Dusen v. Barrack, 376 U.S. 612, 622 (1964)); accord Meterlogic,Inc. v. Copier Solutions, Inc., 185 F.Supp.2d 1292, 1299 (S.D. Fla. 2002). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Once a court finds an action could have been brought in the transferee forum, the court "must weigh various factors ... to determine if a transfer ... is justified. Windmere Corp. v. Remington Prods., Inc., 617 F.Supp. 8, 10 (S.D. Fla. 1985). Courts should consider at least the following private and public interest factors to determine whether transfer is appropriate: 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 (1) the convenience of the witnesses; (2) the location of relevant documents and the relative ease of access to sources of proof; (3) the convenience of the parties; (4) the locus of operative facts; (5) the availability of process to compel the attendance of unwilling witnesses; (6) the relative means of the parties; (7) a forum's familiarity with the governing law; (8) the weight accorded a plaintiff's choice of forum; and (9) trial efficiency and the interests of justice, based on the totality of the circumstances. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Manuel v. Convergys Corp., 430 F.3d 1132, 1135 n.1 (11th Cir. 2005) (citation omitted); see also Meterlogic, 185 F.Supp.2d at 1300; accordMoghaddam v. Dunkin Donuts, Inc., No. 02-60045-Civ-Zloch, 2002 WL 1940724, at *2 (S.D. Fla. Aug. 13, 2002). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 It is the movant's burden to establish transfer is warranted. See Cent.Money Mortg. Co. v. Holman, 122 F.Supp.2d 1345, 1346 (M.D. Fla. 2000). This burden is high: a plaintiff's choice of forum "should not be disturbed unless it is clearly outweighed by other considerations." Robinson v.Giarmarco & Bill, P.C., 74 F.3d 253, 260 (11th Cir. 1996) (internal quotation marks and citation omitted); accord Mason v. Smithkline BeechamClinical Labs., 146 F.Supp.2d 1355, 1359 (S.D. Fla. 2001) ("Transfer can only be granted where the balance of convenience of the parties stronglyfavors the defendant." (emphasis in original) (citations omitted)). However, "where the operative facts underlying the cause of action did not occur within the forum chosen by the Plaintiff, the choice of forum is entitled to less consideration." Windmere Corp., 617 F.Supp. at 10. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 III. ANALYSIS
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Alcatel asserts this action could have been brought in New Jersey and the balance of convenience highly favors transfer to New Jersey. According to Alcatel, it employs more than 3,200 employees in New Jersey; the accused products (base stations used in 4G cellular [*3] networks) were designed, developed, and tested in New Jersey or France (where its corporate parent is located); marketing and financial decisions occur primarily in New Jersey; all the relevant domestic witnesses are in New Jersey or in Europe; no research, testing, marketing or sales of the accused products take place in this District; none of the accused products can be found in this District; no witnesses reside in Florida; and Plaintiffs themselves have a tenuous connection to Florida inasmuch as Wi-Lan is a Canadian company and Wi-Lan USA was created solely as a vehicle for Wi-Lan to file suits in this District over the last several months. (See Mot. 1-2). In their Opposition, Plaintiffs insist all Alcatel has shown is that suit in New Jersey is more convenient for its own employees, and a party's own convenience is insufficient to warrant transfer; most of the non-party witnesses are located on the West Coast; and the time it takes for a case to get to trial in New Jersey is 2.5 times longer than it is in this District. (See Opp'n 2). The Court balances Alcatel's and Plaintiffs assertions to determine whether transfer is appropriate. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 A. The Action Might Have Been Brought in New Jersey
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 An action might have been brought in a transferee district if that district has subject matter jurisdiction over the action, personal jurisdiction over the defendant, and venue is proper in the transferee district. See Windmere Corp., 617 F.Supp. at 10; 15 CHARLES ALAN WRIGHT, ET AL., FEDERAL PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE \'a7 3845, at 47-51 (3d ed. 2007). While Plaintiffs acknowledge this is the preliminary question Alcatel must satisfy (see Opp'n 6), they fail to address it at all. The Court must conclude, therefore, as Alcatel argues, that because this is a patent-infringement action, the District of New Jersey has subject matter jurisdiction under 28 U.S.C. sections 1331 and 1338. (See Mot. 6). And because Alcatel's principal place of business is in New Jersey, venue is proper. (See id.). Finally, Alcatel is amenable to process issuing out of New Jersey. (Seeid.). This preliminary inquiry being satisfied, the Court turns to an examination of the remaining factors. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 B. The Convenience of the Parties and Witnesses
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The convenience of the party and non-party witnesses is an important factor in the analysis whether to grant a motion to transfer. See Gonzalezv. Pirelli Tire, LLC, No. 07-80453-CIV, [2008 BL 296145], 2008 WL 516847, at *2 (S.D. Fla. Feb. 22, 2008). Alcatel asserts New Jersey is a more convenient forum than the Southern District of Florida because numerous Alcatel employees responsible for the design, development, and testing of the accused products are in New Jersey, including many witnesses with information relevant to Wi-Lan's infringement claims. (See Gelsi Decl. \'b6 5 [ECF No. 34-28]). The Alcatel marketing and financial operations are located in New Jersey, and the witnesses in these areas, too, will possibly provide testimony on the design, development, and testing of the accused products. Alcatel identifies its principal customer, Verizon Wireless ("Verizon"), as a "potential third-party witness," relevant in addressing WiLan's proposed new claims for [*4] indirect infringement to which Alcatel objects,[fn1] and states Verizon is based in New Jersey. (Mot. 11; see also Reply 4 [ECF No. 55]). Five of the eight named inventors of the patents-in-suit reside and/or work in California, and one may be based in Massachusetts. (See Mot. Exs. 7-13 [ECF Nos. 8-14]). One of the two firms that prosecuted the patents-in-suit is in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, with an officer in Princeton, New Jersey, and another is based in Southern California. (SeeMot. Exs. 13-14 [ECF Nos. 14-15]). Alcatel asserts it is unaware of any witnesses located in Florida. (See Mot. 11). Furthermore, Alcatel considers it more convenient for Wi-Lan's Canadian witness-employees to travel to New Jersey than to make the longer trip to South Florida. (See id.). The only Wi-Lan USA employee Alcatel is aware of is Matthew Pasulka, the vice-president of litigation of Wi-Lan, but Mr. Pasulka, who resides in Minnesota, merely manages the companies' patent litigation. (See id. 11-12). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Plaintiffs emphasize that in their initial disclosures, the parties did not identify any third-party witnesses located in New Jersey. (See Opp'n 5). The parties instead identified the inventors of the patents-in-suit and the attorneys who prosecuted the patents-in-suit as the key non-party witnesses, and among the eight inventors, five are in California, one is in Massachusetts, one is in Israel, and one is either in California or India. (See id. 5-6). Two of the attorneys who prosecuted the patents-in-suit are in California, and one is in Pennsylvania. (See id. 6). With regard to Verizon witnesses, Alcatel did not disclose them in the parties' initial disclosures, Alcatel does not disclose what information they may have on any of the issues in the case, and Verizon has offices throughout the United States, including in Florida. (See id. 10). The most important third-party witnesses are the inventors and the attorneys, and of the 12, only two are located in a state close to New Jersey \'97 Philadelphia. (See id. 11). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Plaintiffs also acknowledge, however, that Wi-Lan USA's presence in Florida is recent and by design. Wi-Lan USA chose to locate in Florida because of its favorable laws and economic conditions, including access to efficient federal courts familiar with patent cases. (See id. 8). Wi-Lan USA identifies no Florida employees whose presence will be required in discovery or at trial. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Having presented no witnesses who will be assisted by a transfer of this action to New Jersey, and having provided vague references to the New Jersey party-witnesses who may have relevant information,[fn2] on balance, these initial factors do not favor transfer. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 C. The Location of Relevant Documents and the Ease of Access to Proof
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Alcatel argues that because "[i]n patent infringement cases, the bulk of the relevant evidence usually comes from the accused infringer," In reGenentech, Inc., 566 F.3d 1338, 1345 (Fed. Cir. 2009) (internal quotations marks and citation omitted)), and all of the relevant documentary evidence is located in Alcatel's headquarters in New Jersey, with none present in the Southern District of Florida, this factor supports transfer. (See Mot. 12-13). However, [*5] as Plaintiffs recognize, in this age of electronic discovery, it is no more burdensome for Alcatel to produce its documents in Florida than it is for it to produce them in New Jersey. (See Opp'n 12). The Court has previously found, and repeats here, that "[p]roducing documents and other files for litigation ... is not usually a burdensome ordeal due to technological advancements, such as electronic document-imaging and retrieval." Kenneth F. Hackett & Assocs., Inc. v. GE Capital Info. Tech.Solutions, Inc., No. 10-20715-Civ, [2010 BL 179628], 2010 WL 3056600, at *5 (S.D. Fla. Aug. 4, 2010) (citation omitted). Consequently, this factor does not support transfer. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 D. The Locus of Operative Facts
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The Court must agree with Alcatel that the locus of operative facts is in the District of New Jersey and not here. Tellingly, Plaintiffs do not address this factor at all. The alleged infringement has no connection to this District; no accused products can be found here; Alcatel has not sold the accused products to customers in Florida; and Alcatel has not performed any research, development, manufacturing, distribution, or testing related to the accused products in this District. (See Mot. 13). "[W]here the operative facts underlying the cause of action did not occur within the forum chosen by the Plaintiff, the choice of forum is entitled to less consideration.... Several district courts have held that the 'center of gravity' for a patent infringement case is [the place] where the accused product was designed and developed." Motorola Mobility, Inc. v. MicrosoftCorp., 804 F.Supp.2d 1271, 1276 (S.D. Fla. 2011) (internal quotation marks, citations, and footnote call number omitted). This factor favors transfer to New Jersey. 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 E. The Availability of Process to Compel Unwilling Witnesses
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 In light of the minimal number of witnesses who have any connection to New Jersey or to Florida, as previously discussed, the availability of process to compel the attendance of unwilling witnesses does not favor transfer. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 F. The Relative Means of the Parties
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Alcatel acknowledges that "[t]he parties' relative means are irrelevant because it will be costly and inefficient for both parties to litigate this case in the Southern District of Florida." (Mot. 14). Plaintiffs do not directly dispute this characterization, and indeed concede this factor is neutral. (See Opp'n 15). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 G. The Forum's Familiarity With the Governing Law
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The parties also appear to agree that this factor is neutral. (See Mot. 17; Opp'n 15). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 H. Weight Accorded a Plaintiff's Choice of Forum
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 "[A] plaintiff's choice of forum should not be disturbed unless it is clearly outweighed by other considerations." Robinson, 74 F.3d at 260. However, "where the operative facts underlying the cause of action did not occur within the forum chosen by the plaintiff, the choice of forum is entitled to 'less consideration.'" Trace-Wilco, Inc. v. Symantec Corp., No. 08-80877-Civ, [2009 BL 34763], 2009 WL 455432, at *2 (S.D. Fla. Feb. 23, 2009) (citations omitted). Furthermore, where a patentee attempts to influence venue by establishing "recent" and "ephemeral" connections to a district, the choice of forum is also entitled to less consideration. In re Microsoft Corp., 630 F.3d 1361, 1365 (Fed. Cir. [*6] 2011) (citation omitted). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Wi-Lan USA incorporated in Florida in December 2011, and "has made a commitment to Florida by leasing office space, seeking to hire employees and conducting corporate business in this District." (Opp'n 7; see also Vladescu Decl. passim [ECF No. 42-1])). While Wi-Lan USA has only recently begun "actively recruiting" employees, it is presently involved in nine other litigations pending in this District. (See Vladescu Decl. \'b6 7). As Wi-Lan USA admits, it chose this District because of the highly skilled labor pool in the technology and legal professions, as well as because the federal district courts here participate in the federal patent pilot program and offer an expedited docket as compared to other districts, thereby reducing Wi-Lan's business expenses. (See id. \'b6 8). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 According to Alcatel: (1) Wi-Lan USA filed its first of a series of lawsuits a few weeks after incorporating; (2) although it was incorporated over a year ago it can point to not a single employee; and (3) it has signed a one-year lease extension terminable without penalty after six months. (SeeMot. 9; Reply 2). On this showing, the Court must agree with Alcatel that Wi-Lan USA "appears to have been created solely for the purpose of filing cases in the Southern District of Florida." (Mot. 9). Consequently, Wi-Lan USA's Florida existence provides less than persuasive reason to deny transfer to New Jersey, where the alleged infringing activity has taken place. See, e.g., Compression Tech. Solutions LLC v. EMC Corp., No. 4:11cv1579 TCM, [2012 BL 85794], 2012 WL 1188576, at *8 (E.D. Mo. Apr. 6, 2012) (granting motion to transfer and citing cases where plaintiff's recent incorporation in forum without any other meaningful activity negated deference generally given a plaintiff's choice); Shared Memory Graphics LLC v. Apple Inc., No. 5:09CV5128 BSM, 2010 WL 5151612, at *3 (W.D. Ark., May 27, 2010) ("Although [plaintiff] is incorporated in Arkansas, it had no role in the development of the patents involved .... Further, the record does not indicate that [plaintiff] has any relevant employees or documents in the Western District of Arkansas." (citation omitted)). 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 I. Trial Efficiency and Interests of Justice Based on the Totality of theCircumstances
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Alcatel provides statistics showing that while the average time it takes for a patent case to reach trial in this District is shorter than it is in the transferor district, the average time for a case to reach its conclusion is nearly identical in both. (See Mot. 16; Reply 7). Plaintiffs dispute the accuracy of Alcatel's numbers, insisting that this District is far more efficient, providing the speedier forum for resolution of the parties' dispute. (See Opp'n 13-14). Plaintiffs supply a declaration that relies on the 2011 Report on Judicial Business of the U.S. Courts that shows the median time to trial in this District is 17.2 months, as compared to 44 months in the transferor district. (See id. 13; Patmore Decl. [ECF No. 42-5]; Patmore Decl. Ex. 3 [ECF No. 42-8]). On balance, this factor favors retention of the suit. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 IV. CONCLUSION
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The Court now balances all of these factors. The Court agrees with Plaintiffs that the private [*7] interest factors pertaining to witness convenience, location of records, and availability of compulsory process do not favor transfer to New Jersey. Similarly, the public interest factor of trial efficiency points to retention of the case in this District. The Court also agrees that some of the factors considered \'97 such as the parties' relative means and the forum's familiarity with governing law \'97 are neutral, militating neither in favor of nor against transfer. On this side of the scale, Alcatel has failed to persuade. Nevertheless, the Court finds compelling that Plaintiffs' presence in this District is recent and ephemeral, deserving of less consideration than a domestic plaintiff would normally be entitled to. It is also significant that the operative facts underlying the causes of action did not occur in this District, and courts routinely transfer patent cases to the district where the infringing acts are alleged to have taken place. This places two of the factors in Alcatel's favor. On this record, the Court concludes that Alcatel has not carried its high burden of showing that the balance of convenience strongly favors a transfer. See Cent. Money Mortg. Co., 122 F.Supp.2d at 1346; Mason, 146 F.Supp.2d at 1359. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Being fully advised, it is ORDERED AND ADJUDGED that the Motion to Transfer Pursuant to 28 U.S.C. section 1404(a) [ECF No. 34] is DENIED. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 DONE AND ORDERED
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn1] Alcatel intends to file a memorandum in opposition to Plaintiffs' Motion to Amend Complaint [ECF No. 47]. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn2] Alcatel asserts several named engineers were "involved" in the design of Alcatel base stations (without specific reference to the accused products), and that a William Zucker was "involved in overseeing the design and development of the accused products" (Mot. 5), without further explaining what relevant testimony these individuals would provide. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb566\sa1133\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0          
\f0\fs42 General Information\

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 Judge(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 CECILIA MARIA ALTONAGA\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Related Docket(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 1:12-cv-23568 (S.D. Fla.);\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Topic(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Civil Procedure\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Date Filed\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 2013-01-29 00:00:00\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Parties\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 WI-LAN USA, INC., and WI-LAN, INC., Plaintiffs, v. ALCATEL-LUCENT USA INC., Defendant.\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Case Type\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 SO\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Court\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 United States District Court for the Southern District of Florida\cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\li674\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\fs20 \cf0 Pagination \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 *
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 BL
\f1\fs24 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\li674\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 United States District Court, M.D. Florida \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 PENNY DOVER, Plaintiff, -against- R.J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY, individually and as successor by merger to the BROWN AND WILLIAMSON TOBACCO COMPANY and the AMERICAN TOBACCO COMPANY, PHILIP MORRIS USA INC., LIGGET GROUP LLC, and LORILLARD TOBACCO COMPANY, Defendants. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 3:09-cv-11531 (SAS). \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 September 22, 2014. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
Charlie Easa Farah, Jr., Esq., Farah & Farah, Jacksonville, FL, Janna B. McNicholas, Esq., Norwood Sherman Wilner, Esq. Richard J. Lantinberg, Esq. Stephanie J. Hartley, Esq., The Wilner Firm, Jacksonville, FL. Kenneth S. Byrd, Esq., John T. Spragens, Esq., Kathryn E. Barnett, Esq., Lieff, Cabraser, Heimann & Bernstein, LLP, Nashville, TN. Martin D. Quinones, Esq., Todd A. Walburg, Esq., Robert J. Nelson, Esq., Sarah R. London, Esq., Lieff, Cabraser, Heimann & Bernstein, LLP, San Francisco, CA, For Plaintiff. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 David M. Monde, Esq., John F. Yarber, Esq., Stephanie E. Parker, Esq. Jones Day, Atlanta, GA, David Clifford Reeves, Esq., Jeffrey Alan Yarbrough, Esq., Joseph W. Prichard, Jr., Esq., Robert B. Parrish, Esq., Moseley, Prichard, Parrish, Knight & Jones, Jacksonville, FL, James B. Murphy, Jr., Esq., Terri L. Parker, Esq., Shook, Hardy & Bacon, LLP, Tampa St Tampa, FL, Joshua Reuben Brown, Esq., Greenberg Traurig, LLP, Orlando, FL, For Defendant R.J. Reynolds. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Keri L. Arnold, Esq., Arnold & Porter, LLP, M. Sean Laane, Esq., Judith Bernstein-Gaeta, Esq., Maura McGonigle, Esq., Arnold & Porter, LLP, Washington, DC New York, NY, Nathan D. Foster, Esq., Arnold & Porter, LLP, Denver, CO, For Defendant Philip Morris. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Aviva L. Wernick, Esq., Rafael Cruz-Alvarez, Esq., Hughes, Hubbard & Reed, LLP, Miami, FL, Gay Tedder, Esq., Hughes, Hubbard & Reed, LLP, Kansas City, MO, Jeff H. Galloway, Esq., Robb W. Patryk, Esq., Theodore V.H. Mayer, Esq. Hughes, Hubbard & Reed, New York, NY, Wilfred P. Coronato, Esq., Hughes, Hubbard & Reed, LLP, Jersey City, NJ, John Andrew De Vault, III, Esq., Patrick P. Coll, Esq., Bedell, Dittmar, DeVault, Pillans & Coxe, PA The Bedell, Jacksonville, FL, Lorence Jon Bielby, Esq., Greenberg Traurig, LLP, Tallahassee, FL, Stephen L. Saxl, Esq., Greenberg Traurig, LLP Metlife Building New York, NY, For Defendant Lorillard Tobacco. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 OPINION AND ORDER
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\
Shira A. Scheindlin, District Judge 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\
In advance of trial on individual liability and entitlement to punitive damages, plaintiff Penny Dover and defendants R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, Phillip Morris USA Inc., and Lorillard Tobacco Company have filed numerous motions in limine and under Daubert v. Merrell Dow Pharmaceuticals, Inc.("Daubert").[fn1] At a hearing on September 5, 2014, I ruled orally on a number of these motions and later entered an Order reflecting those rulings. This Opinion and Order addresses the parties' remaining motions. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 I. BACKGROUND
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 A. The Engle Class Action and Findings
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 This case arises from a state class action brought in 1994 by smokers against cigarette companies seeking damages for smoking-related illnesses.[fn2] Following class certification, the trial court developed a three-phase trial plan. In Phase I, the jury would decide issues common to the class, including general causation, the defendants' common liability, and entitlement to punitive damages; in Phase II, the jury would [*2] decide individual causation and damages for the class representatives and the quantum of class-wide punitive damages; and in Phase III, different juries would decide individual causation and damages for individual class members.[fn3] Phase I and II were completed \'97 in Phase I, the jury returned a verdict in favor of the class on all claims and determined that the class was entitled to punitive damages, and in Phase II the jury found that certain class representatives were entitled to compensatory damages, and awarded one hundred and forty five billion dollars in class-wide punitive damages.[fn4]
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 On appeal, the Florida Supreme Court decertified the class "because individualized issues such as legal causation, comparative fault, and damages predominate."[fn5] The Engle court also reversed the class-wide punitive damages award. Significantly, however, Engle held that 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 the following Phase I findings are entitled to res judicata effect: (i) that smoking cigarettes causes certain named diseases including COPD and lung cancer [including adenocarinoma]; (ii) that nicotine in cigarettes is addictive; (iii) that the Engle defendants placed cigarettes on the market that were defective and unreasonably dangerous; (iv) that the Engle defendants concealed or omitted material information not otherwise known or available knowing that the material was false or misleading or failed to disclose a material fact concerning the health effects or addictive nature of smoking cigarettes or both; (v) that the Engle defendants agreed to conceal or omit information regarding the health effects of cigarettes or their addictive nature with the intention that smokers and the public would rely on this information to their detriment; (vi) that all of the Engle defendants sold or supplied cigarettes that were defective; (vii) that all of the Engle defendants sold or supplied cigarettes that, at the time of sale or supply, did not conform to representations of fact made by said defendants; and (viii) that all of the Engle defendants were negligent.[fn6]
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 At the same time, the Phase I findings did not have res judicata effect as to claims alleging either fraud and misrepresentation or civil conspiracy based on misrepresentation. This was because the findings were "inadequate to allow a subsequent jury to consider individual questions of reliance and legal cause."[fn7]
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 B. The Amended Complaint [fn8]
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Plaintiff suffers from Coronary Heart Disease and Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease ("COPD").[fn9] Relying on the Phase I findings, she "brings this action upon the limited remaining issues in dispute[:] specific causation, apportionment of damages, comparative fault, compensatory damages, entitlement to punitive damages, and punitive damages."[fn10] She asserts claims for strict liability, civil conspiracy to fraudulently conceal, fraudulent concealment, negligence and gross negligence, breach of express warranty, and breach of implied warranty.[fn11]
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 II. LEGAL STANDARD
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 A. Motions in Limine 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The purpose of a motion in limine is to "enabl[e] the Court to rule in advance of trial [*3] on the relevance of certain forecasted evidence, as to issues that are definitely set for trial, without lengthy argument at, or interruption of, the trial."[fn12] Evidence is relevant if it has "any tendency to make the existence of any fact that is of consequence to the determination of the action more probable or less probable than it would be without the evidence."[fn13] Under Rule 403, even relevant evidence "may be excluded if its probative value is substantially outweighed by the danger of unfair prejudice, confusion of issues, or misleading the jury, or by considerations of undue delay, waste of time, or needless presentation of cumulative evidence." A court will exclude evidence on a motion in limineonly if it is clear that the evidence is inadmissible on all potential grounds. Accordingly, courts may reserve judgment on motions in limine until trial, and any ruling on such a motion is subject to change in the court's discretion as the case unfolds. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 B. Federal Rule of Evidence 702 and Daubert 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Daubert and Federal Rule of Evidence 702 "plainly contemplate[] that the district court will serve as a gatekeeper to the admission of scientific testimony."[fn14] In determining the admissibility of expert testimony, courts in the Eleventh Circuit consider whether: 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 (1) [T]he expert is qualified to testify competently regarding the matters he intends to address; (2) the methodology by which the expert reaches his conclusions is sufficiently reliable as determined by the sort of inquiry mandated in Daubert; and (3) the testimony assists the trier of fact, through the application of scientific, technical, or specialized expertise, to understand the evidence or to determine a fact in issue.[fn15]
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 To be admissible, the proposed expert testimony must be based "on a reliable foundation."[fn16] In assessing reliability, the trial judge should consider whether: 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 (1) the testimony is based upon sufficient facts or data, (2) the testimony is the product of reliable principles and methods, and (3) the witness has reliably applied the principles and methods to the facts of the case.[fn17]
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Finally, trial courts must consider only the admissibility of expert evidence rather than its weight or credibility. As the Supreme Court has explained, "[v]igorous cross-examination, presentation of contrary evidence, and careful instruction on the burden of proof are the traditional and appropriate means of attacking shaky but admissible evidence."[fn18]
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 III. DISCUSSION
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 A. Plaintiffs Motion in Limine \'a0 Seeking to Exclude "Empty-Chair" ArgumentsAttributing Fault to Non-Party Cigarette Companies
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Plaintiffs smoking history includes brands of cigarettes manufactured by non-parties, including Dosai Tobacco Corporation's "305" brand. According to defendants, plaintiff testified that she smoked 305s "on a regular basis from the 1990s [to the] present," and that she "smoked only these (non-party manufactured) cigarettes for at least the last 14 years."[fn19] Defendants also assert that plaintiff changed her position at her deposition, claiming that she had smoked 305s for a shorter time period.[fn20]
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Relying on the [*4] Florida Supreme Court's decision in Fabre v. Marin, plaintiff argues that defendants should be precluded from "attempting to place fault with non-parties whose liability has not been pled or proved."[fn21] She argues that under Florida law, "a defendant's percentage of fault cannot be compared to that of a non-party unless the defendant specifically pleads the non-party's identity, pleads the non-party's negligence as an affirmative defense, and puts forth supporting evidence."[fn22] According to plaintiff, "[a]rguing a non-party caused some of the plaintiffs injury without actually pleading or demonstrating that non-party's negligence is a form of the highly prejudicial 'empty chair' defense not permitted under Florida law."[fn23]
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 However, the Fabre rule only applies when a defendant is seeking to apportion fault by establishing the comparative negligence of a non-party.[fn24] It does not prohibit a defendant from arguing that the conduct of a non-party is the proximate cause of plaintiff's injuries.[fn25]As a consequence of Engle, it is plaintiffs obligation to prove "individualized issues such as legal causation. . . ."[fn26] At the same time, defendants are entitled to rebut plaintiffs proof of causation with evidence that she smoked non-party brands for significant periods of time.[fn27] They may also use this evidence to impeach plaintiffs credibility \'97 but only to the extent that her sworn statements about smoking 305's are in fact contradictory \'97 and to refute plaintiffs claims that the design of defendants ' cigarettes stopped plaintiff from quitting smoking. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 B. Defendants' Motion in Limine \'a0 to Exclude Dr. David Burns M.D.'s Opinionthat Changes in Cigarette Design Have Increased the Risk of Adenocarcinoma
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Defendants seek to exclude Dr. David Burns' opinion that changes in cigarette design have increased the risk of developing adenocarcinoma, a type of lung cancer.[fn28] They contend that Dr. Burns' opinion is not relevant because plaintiff does not seek damages for injuries related to adenocarcinoma or any other form of cancer. Plaintiff argues that Dr. Burns' testimony is relevant to comparative fault, fraud and conspiracy, and punitive damages. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 With respect to comparative fault,[fn29] plaintiff argues that the testimony is relevant because defendants' "negligent conduct contributed to [her] multiple smoking-related diseases, and the jury should be allowed to consider it in determining any allocation of fault."[fn30] She also argues that Dr. Burns' opinion is necessary to rebut defendants' contention that she was and is aware of the risks of smoking.[fn31] In this regard, she states that "she could not have known all of the risks of smoking, because critical information regarding the increased risk of smoking was not available until long after she became addicted and suffered irreparable harm."[fn32] With respect to the fraud and conspiracy claims and punitive damages, plaintiff argues that even as defendants claimed over a fifty-year period that they were cooperating with public health authorities, they were "conceal[ing] from both the government and from smokers, . . .[like [*5] herself], that filters and other design changes were making their products more dangerous, not less."[fn33]
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 In making these arguments, plaintiff ignores defendants' specific objection \'97 which concerns Dr. Burns' theory about the relationship between cigarette design and the increased risk of adenocarcinoma \'97 and focuses on defendants' conduct over a fifty-year period in concealing the overall risks associated with their products.[fn34] However, defendants deny that they, or anyone else, were aware of the specific design defect related to adenocarcinoma at the time the designs were implemented, plaintiff first started using cigarettes, or when she became addicted to them, and plaintiff does not suggest otherwise.[fn35] This is because, Dr. Burns' "theory is new" having been "first articulated and relied on by him . . . within the last year" as reflected in the 2014 Surgeon General's Report on the health consequences of smoking.[fn36]
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Accordingly, I find that based on the current record, plaintiff has not established that Dr. Burns' opinion as to cigarette design and the increased risk of adenocarcinoma is relevant to notice or the defendants' failure to act based on that notice. For this same reason, the testimony is not relevant to her claim for punitive damages, which requires convincing evidence that defendants "had actual knowledge of the wrongfulness of the conduct and the high probability that injury or damages to the claim would result and, despite that knowledge, intentionally pursued that course of conduct, resulting in injury or damage."[fn37]
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Dr. Burns' opinion is not relevant to plaintiffs strict liability claim for the additional reason that she does not suffer from any form of lung cancer, and under Florida Law strict liability claims require proof of a "proximate causal connection between [the defective] condition and the user's injuries or damages."[fn38] And the suggestion that if plaintiff had only known about the increased riskof this particular type of lung cancer, she would not have smoked or would have quitsmoking despite her nicotine addiction, is implausible, and in any event of limited probative value compared with the potential for prejudice or confusion of the issues under Federal Rule of Evidence 403. In this regard, I note that the Rule 403 factors are generally applied more stringently when evaluating the admissibility of expert testimony.[fn39] For example, in a case involving an Engle plaintiff that had lung cancer, but not adenocarcinoma, the trial judge excluded the proposed testimony, finding that the "probative value is fairly slight" and outweighed by "the risk of unfair prejudice."[fn40] In short, plaintiffs proffer at this stage is insufficient to permit Dr. Burns' testimony regarding cigarette design and the increased risk of adenocarcinoma. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 C. Defendants' Motion to Exclude Certain Testimony of Plaintiff's ExpertNeil Grunberg, Ph.D.
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Dr. Neil Grunberg has testified in a number of tobacco-related cases in federal and state courts, including in Florida.[fn41] He is not a medical doctor, but has a doctorate in psychology and has also [*6] completed doctoral training in pharmacology.[fn42] He is Professor of Medical and Clinical Psychology, Professor of Neuroscience, and Professor of Military and Emergency Medicine at the F. Edward Hebert School of Medicine at the Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences in Bethesda, Maryland.[fn43]
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 1. "Minimum Effective Dose"
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 In his report, Dr. Grunberg states that "there is an effective dose range of nicotine necessary to initiate and sustain addiction."[fn44] According to defendants, "[t]his theory, known as the 'minimum effective dose' theory, was invented by plaintiff['s] experts . . . to prove that [defendants' cigarettes were defective, and to support a proposition that a safer alternative design would be a cigarette" with lower nicotine levels than the minimum effective dose.[fn45] Defendants argue that Dr. Grunberg should not be permitted to testify concerning this theory because he has no expertise in pharmacology, the testimony is speculative and unreliable due to "analytical flaws," and the theory is irrelevant and "highly prejudicial."[fn46]
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 After a careful review of Dr. Grunberg's education, professional qualifications, and professional work, I find that he is qualified to opine on addiction and the minimum effective dose of nicotine. For example, Dr. Grunberg "wrote his doctoral dissertation on the effects of nicotine on the brain, and then, as the Scientific Editor of the 1988 Surgeon General's Report on Nicotine Addiction, spent years studying and compiling research to determine why people smoke,"[fn47] and has published extensively on nicotine addiction.[fn48] His education and professional work also includes pharmacology, particularly with respect to the effects of nicotine.[fn49] Finally, defendants' contentions regarding methodology, relevance, and prejudice all go to the weight, not the admissibility, of Dr. Grunberg's opinion.[fn50]
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 2. Cigarette Advertising and Marketing
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Dr. Grunberg offers several opinions regarding defendants' marketing strategies and the effects of cigarette advertisements on the public, including adolescents.[fn51] Defendants argue that such testimony should be excluded because Dr. Grunberg "concedes that he is not an expert in marketing or advertising" or on "consumer awareness issues or consumer acceptability."[fn52]
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 After careful review of Dr. Grunberg's education, professional qualifications, and professional work, I find that he is qualified to testify concerning cigarette advertising and marketing. "As a trained social psychologist who studies tobacco use and addiction, Dr. Grunberg . . . possesses expertise on the social forces that influence a smoker's tobacco use."[fn53] In addition, Dr. Grunberg's past and current experience includes work on campaigns to prevent smoking.[fn54] Such testimony will be "subject to objections sustained at trial, this Court's prior evidentiary Orders, and Master Docket evidentiary rulings."[fn55]
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 IV. CONCLUSION
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 For the foregoing reasons, plaintiffs motion to exclude evidence that she smoked cigarettes manufactured by non-parties is DENIED; defendants' motion to exclude Dr. Burns' testimony [*7] regarding cigarette design and the increased risk of adenocarcinoma is GRANTED; and defendants' motion to preclude Dr. Grunberg's testimony regarding "minimum effective dose" and cigarette advertising is DENIED. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn1] 509 U.S. 579(1993). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn2] See R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company v. Engle, 672 So.2d 39, 40 (Fla.3d DCA 1996). The plaintiffs brought claims for strict liability in tort, fraud and misrepresentation, conspiracy to commit fraud and misrepresentation, breach of the implied warranty of merchantability and fitness, negligence, breach of express warranty, and intentional infliction of mental distress. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn3] See Philip Morris USA, Inc. v. Douglas, 110 So.3d 419, 422 (Fla. 2013) ("Douglas"). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn4] See Engle v. Liggett Group, Inc., 945 So.2d 1246, 1256-57 (Fla. 2006) ("Engle"). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn5]  Id. at 1268. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn6] Douglas, 110 So.3d at 424-25 (quotation marks, citations, and brackets omitted). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn7] Engle, 945 So.2d at 1255. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn8] Plaintiff filed an Amended Complaint on October 3, 2013 (the "Amended Complaint"). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn9] See Amended Complaint \'b6 4. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn10]  Id. \'b6 99. Notably, the jury's Phase I findings in Engle include that 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [s]moking cigarettes causes aortic aneurysm, bladder cancer, cerebral vascular disease, cervical cancer, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease,coronary heart disease, esophageal cancer, kidney cancer, laryngeal cancer, lung cancer (specifically, adenocarcinoma, large cell carcinoma, small cell carcinoma, and squamous cell carcinoma), complications of pregnancy, oral cavity/tongue cancer, pancreatic cancer, peripheral vascular disease, pharyngeal cancer, and stomach cancer. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Id. \'b6 106(a) (emphasis added). The Phase I findings also include that nicotine is addictive, defendants' products were defective and unreasonably dangerous, defendants concealed or omitted, both individually and in tandem, material information about the health effects and addictive nature of cigarettes, and that defendants sold or supplied cigarettes that did not conform to factual representations they made about those cigarettes. See id. Yi 106(b)-(g). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn11] See id. \'b6\'b6 15-139. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn12] Palmieri v. Defaria, 88 F.3d 136, 141 (2d Cir. 1996). Accord Luce v.United States, 469 U.S. 38, 40 n. 2 (1984) (stating that the purpose of motions in limine are to allow a court to rule on the admissibility of potential evidence in advance of trial). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn13] Fed. R. Evid. 401. Under Rule 402, irrelevant evidence is inadmissible. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn14] Quiet Technology DC-8, Inc. v. Hurel-Dubois UK Ltd., 326 F.3d 1333, 1340 (11th Cir. 2003). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn15] City of Tuscaloosa v. Harcros Chems., Inc., 158 F.3d 548, 562 (11th Cir. 1998) (citing Daubert, 509 U.S. at 589). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn16] Daubert, 509 U.S. at 597. Accord Kumho Tire Co., Ltd. v. Carmichael, 526 U.S. 137, 147-49 (1999). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn17] Fed. R. Evid. 702. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn18] Daubert, 509 U.S. at 596. Accord Allison v. McGhan Med. Corp., 184 F.3d 1300, 1311(11th Cir. 1999) (stating that the district court's role under Daubert "is not intended to supplant the adversary system or the role of the jury"); Rosenfeld v. Oceania Cruises, 654 F.3d 1190, 1193 (11th Cir. 2011) (stating that the district court should not "make ultimate conclusions as to the persuasiveness of the proffered evidence") (quotation marks omitted). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn19] Defendants' Response to Plaintiffs Case-Specific Motion in Limine("Def. Case-Specific Resp."), at 1 (quotation marks omitted) (emphasis in original). Defendants also state that plaintiffs husband confirmed this testimony at his deposition, indicating that 305s were her main brand and that she had started smoking them in the 1990s. See id. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn20] See id. at 2. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn21] Plaintiffs Case-Specific Motions in Limine ("Pl. Case-Specific Mem."), at 3. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn22]  Id. (citing Nash v. Wells Fargo Guard Servs., Inc., 678 So.2d 1262, 1264 (Fla. 1996) ("Nash"); Fabre v. Marin, 623 So.2d 1182, 1185 (Fla. 1993) ("Fa\'f2re"), receded from on other grounds, Wells v. Tallahassee Mem'l Reg'lMed. Ctr., Inc., 659 So.2d 249, 254 (Fla. 1995)). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn23]  Id. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn24] The Fabre defense was born out of judicial disagreement over the interpretation of a then-newly enacted comparative negligence statute. See,e.g., Allied-Signal, Inc. v. Fox, 623 So.2d 1180, 1182 (Fla. 1993) ("In Fabre we adopted the rationale of Messmer [v. Teacher's Ins. Co., 588 So.2d 610 (Fla. 5th DCA 1991)], holding that section 768.81(3), Florida Statutes (1989), requires that liability be apportioned to all participants in an accident in order to determine a defendant's percentage of fault."). In relevant part, the statute provides that "[i]n a negligence action, the court shall enter judgment against each party liable on the basis of such party's percentage of fault and not on the basis of the doctrine of joint and several liability." Florida's Supreme Court later made clear that because a Fabre defense is an affirmative defense, it had to be plead and proven before the issue of the non-party's comparative negligence could be included on the verdict sheet. See Nash, 678 So.2d at 1264. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn25] See Pearson v. Royal Caribbean Cruises, Ltd., 751 So.2d 125, 126(Fla.3d DCA 2000) (citing Clement v. Rousselle Corp., 372 So.2d 1156, 1158(Fla. 1st DCA 1979) ("A defendant who has answered with a general denial, is entitled to prove, and to argue to the jury, that the accident was due solely to the negligence of a person not party to the suit."), cert. denied, 383 So.2d 1191 (Fla. 1980)); Loureiro v. Pools by Greg, Inc., 698 So.2d 1262, 1264 (Fla. 4th DCA 1997) ("Even had the issue of non-party liability been omitted from the instructions and the verdict form, [defendant] could still have contended at trial that it was not negligent and that the negligence of others was the sole legal cause of injury."); Reed v. Dollar General Corp., No. 05-cv-1440T24, [2005 BL 72193], 2005 WL 2062231, at *2 (M.D. Fla. Aug. 23, 2005) (stating that it is not an affirmative defense for a defendant in a negligence action to argue that plaintiffs injury resulted from someone else's negligence). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn26] Engle, 945 So.2d at 1268. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn27] See Def. Case-Specific Opp. at 3 (citing Engle-related cases in which evidence of a plaintiff's use of cigarettes manufactured by a non-party was permitted). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn28] See Defendants' Case-Specific Motions in Limine ("Def. Case-Specific Mem."), at 1-2. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn29] See Hoffman v. Jones, 280 So.2d 431, 439 (Fla. 1973) (stating that comparative fault "allow[s] a jury to apportion fault as it sees fit between negligent parties whose negligence was part of the legal and proximate cause of any loss or injury; and . . . apportions the total damages resulting from the loss or injury according to the proportionate fault of each party"). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn30] Plaintiffs Opposition to Defendants' Case-Specific Motions in Limine ("Pl. Case-Specific Opp."), at 2. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn31] See id. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn32]  Id. at 3. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn33]  Id. (stating that plaintiff "will argue that she relied to her detriment on this concealment and conspiracy \'97 both in continuing to smoke and in purchasing cigarettes with filters and those marketed as delivering 'lower tar[,]'" and that if defendants "had been honest about the true risks of their products \'97 including the increased risk of developing certain cancers \'97 Mrs. Dover could have made an informed choice and avoided her injuries") (emphasis in original). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn34] See id. 1.
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn35] See Def. Case-Specific Mem. at 3-4. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn36]  Id. (emphasis in original); see 1/1/14 Burns Deposition, Ex. B to Case-Specific Mem., at 292 (indicating that the link between cigarette design and increased risk of adenocarcinoma was based on studies published after the 2010 Surgeon General's Report on smoking). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn37] Fla. Stat. \'a7 768.72(2)(a). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn38] West v. Caterpillar Tractor Co., 336 So.2d 80, 87 (Fla. 1976). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn39] See Def. Case-Specific Mem. at 5 (citing Allison, 184 F.3d at 1310). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn40] 5/1/14 Transcript in Starbuck v. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., No. 09-cv-13250, Ex. G to Def. Case Specific Mem., at 35-36. As defendants note, three trial courts have granted defendants' motion to exclude Dr. Burns' testimony in Engle cases that did not involve lung cancer. See 4/30/14 Order in Burkhart v. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., No. 09-cv-10727 ("Burkhart"), Ex. D to Def. Case-Specific Mem.; 7/9/14 Transcript in Harris v. R.J. ReynoldsTobacco Co., No. 09-cv-13482 (holding that the testimony would be excluded subject to "revisiting if the door is opened"), Ex. E to Def. Case-Specific Mem.; 6/16/14 Transcript in Davis v. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., No. 09-cv-1147, Ex. F to Def. Case-Specific Mem. In Burkhart, the trial court later allowed Dr. Burns' testimony. See 5/19/14 Trial Transcript, Docket No. 122 in Burkhart, at 59-64. The court permitted the evidence after defendants, on cross-examination, went through years of progressively more recent Surgeon General's Reports that gave the impression that the risk of disease from cigarettes had lessened over time. Because the 2014 Surgeon General's Report included Dr. Burns' opinion that cigarettes had become more dangerous with respect to adenocarcinoma, this evidence was allowed on re direct with the limiting instruction that the case involved COPD, not cancer. See id. at 62-64. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn41] See Plaintiffs Opposition to Defendants' Motion to Exclude Certain Testimony by Plaintiffs Expert Neil Grunberg, Ph.D. ("Pl. Grunberg Opp."), at 1. Counsel for plaintiff filed the same opposition in two other Engle-related cases, Berger v. Philip Morris USA Inc., No. 09-cv-14157("Berger") and Kerrivan v. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., No. 09-cv-13703("Kerrivan"). In Berger, Judge James G. Carr permitted Dr. Grunberg to testify on the two issues discussed in this Memorandum Opinion and Order. See Berger Docket No. 72 at 8-9. Defendants' motion is currently pending in Kerrivan.
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn42] See6/11/4 Expert Report of Neil E. Grunberg, Ph.D. ("Grunberg Report"), Ex. 1 to Pl. Grunberg Opp., \'b6 12. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn43] See id \'b6 1.
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn44]  Id. \'b6 88. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn45] Defendants' Motion to Exclude Certain Testimony of Plaintiff's Expert Neil Grunberg, Ph.D. ("Def. Grunberg Mem."), at 3 (citing Grunberg Report \'b6\'b6 88-131). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn46]  Id. at 4. Accord id. at 4-8. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn47] Pl. Grunberg Opp. at 3. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn48] See generally Curriculum Vitae of Neil Everett Grunberg, Ex. 5 to Pl. Grunberg Opp. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn49] See Pl. Grunberg Opp. at 4 n. 3 & n. 4 (listing publications). As plaintiff notes, "[t]he specialized knowledge necessary for expert testimony may be derived from experience, as well as from education or training." Id. at 3 (citing Fed. R. Evid. 702; Kumho Tire Co., 526 U.S. at 147). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn50] See Berger Docket No. 72 at 8. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn51] See, e.g., Grunberg Report \'b6\'b6 16(j) ("Defendants' cigarettes with varying reported nicotine deliveries remain dangerous, and in fact, some are even more dangerous, because Defendants cultivated a perception among the public and the public health community that filtered, light and 'low' yield cigarettes were a safer alternative"), 16(1) ("Defendants' advertising affects cigarette use in adolescents"). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn52] Def. Grunberg Mem. at 14 (citations omitted). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn53] Pl. Grunberg Opp. at 16. As explained by Dr. Grunberg, "one of my areas of concentration was social psychology, which includes attitude formation change and how to influence other people." 8/7/14 Grunberg Deposition ("Grunberg Dep."), Ex. 6 to Pl. Grunberg Opp., at 472. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn54] See Pl. Grunberg Opp. at 16 (noting that in the past Dr. Grunberg served as scientific director and chair of the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation's Youth Tobacco Prevention Initiative and worked as a scientific consultant for a public health marketing campaign relating to cigarettes); Grunberg Dep. at 474-475 (same). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn55] Berger Docket No. 72 at 9. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb566\sa1133\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0          
\f0\fs42 General Information\

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 Related Docket(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 3:09-cv-11531 (M.D. Fla.);\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Topic(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Evidence\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Date Filed\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 2014-09-22 00:00:00\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Parties\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 PENNY DOVER, Plaintiff, -against- R.J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY, individually and as successor by merger to the BROWN AND WILLIAMSON TOBACCO COMPANY and the AMERICAN TOBACCO COMPANY, PHILIP MORRIS USA INC., LIGGET GROUP LLC, and LORILLARD TOBACCO COMPANY, Defendants.\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Case Type\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 SO\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Court\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 United States District Court for the Middle District of Florida\cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\li674\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\fs20 \cf0 Pagination \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 *
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 F. Supp. 2d 
\f1\fs24 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 **
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 BL
\f1\fs24 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\li674\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 United States District Court, M.D. Florida. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Victoria WAGGONER and Robert Waggoner, Plaintiffs, v. R.J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO., et al.,[fn1] Defendants. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Case No. 3:09-cv-10367-J-37JBT. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 December 20, 2011. [*1247] \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
[fn1] The named defendants in this action are R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, individually and as successor by merger to Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corporation and The American Tobacco Company ("RJR"); and Philip Morris U.S.A., Inc. ("Philip Morris"). However, as discussed at the June 6, 2011 Engle Case Management Conference (Doc. 173 in Case No. 3:09-cv-10000-J-32JBT,"Engle Master Docket"), the preclusion and due process issues presented herein impact each of the thousands of Engle progeny cases pending before this Court. As a result, this Court instructed any Engletobacco defendant, whether or not named as a defendant in this particular action, that wished to be heard on issues herein, or that wished to adopt the position of another defendant on those issues, to file the appropriate pleading in this case. (See Engle Master Docket Doc. 175.) Accordingly, Lorillard Tobacco Co. ("Lorillard"), Liggett Group LLC ("Liggett"), and Vector Group, Ltd. ("Vector") have joined in and adopted the Fed.R.Civ.P. 16(c) Motion to Determine the Preclusive Effect of the Engle Phase I Findings filed by RJR and Philip Morris in this case. (see Doc. 35 at 1 n. 1; Doc. 36 at 1). Collectively, these entities are referred to as "Defendants." Following submission of this issue to the undersigned, this action was transferred for trial to my colleague, the Honorable Roy B. Dalton, Jr., with the understanding that the undersigned would still decide this motion. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\
[EDITORS' NOTE: THIS PAGE CONTAINS HEADNOTES. HEADNOTES ARE NOT AN OFFICIAL PRODUCT OF THE COURT, THEREFORE THEY ARE NOT DISPLAYED.] 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Charlie Easa Farah, Jr., Eddie Easa Farah, Farah & Farah, PA, Janna M. Blasingame, Norwood Sherman Wilner, Stephanie J. Hartley, Richard J. Lantinberg, The Wilner Firm, P.A., Jacksonville, FL, Elizabeth J. Cabraser, Richard M. Heimann, Sarah R. London, Robert J. Nelson, Lieff, Cabraser, Heimann & Bernstein, LLP, San Francisco, CA, Jennifer Gross, Lieff, Cabraser, Heimann & Bernstein, LLP, Samuel Issacharoff, New York, NY, Kathryn E. Barnett, Kenneth S. Byrd, Lieff, Cabraser, Heimann & Bernstein, LLP, Nashville, TN, for Plaintiffs. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Andrew J. Knight, II, David Clifford Reeves, Jeffrey Alan Yarbrough, Joseph W. Prichard, Jr., Robert B. Parrish, Moseley, Prichard, Parrish, Knight & Jones, Dana G. Bradford, II, Smith, Gambrell & Russell, LLP, Jacksonville, FL, Benjamin H. Hill, III, State Attorney's Office, Bonnie C. Daboll, Cathy A. Kamm, James B. Murphy, Jr., Shook, Hardy & Bacon, LLP, Tampa, FL, Erin E. Murphy, H. Christopher Bartolomucci, Paul D. Clement, Stephen V. Potenza, Bancroft PLLC, Brittany E. Hamelers, David E. Kouba, Mallori C. Browne, Michael S. Tye, Brittany E. Hamelers, Judith Bernstein-Gaeta, M. Sean Laane, Arnold & Porter, LLP, Washington, DC, John Fachet Yarber, Stephanie E. Parker, Jones Day, Atlanta, GA, Gregory L. Fowler, Shook, Hardy & Bacon, LLP, Kansas City, MO, Keri Arnold, Arnold & Porter, LLP, Lauren Rosenblum Goldman, Mayer Brown, LLP, New York, NY, Peter T. Grossi, Jr., Arnold & Porter LLP, McLean, VA, William P. Geraghty, Shook, Hardy & Bacon, LLP, Miami, FL, Joshua Reuben Brown, Rumberger, Kirk & Caldwell, PA, Orlando, FL, for Defendants. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 ORDER 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 TIMOTHY J. CORRIGAN, District Judge. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\
The Engle tobacco odyssey began in 1994, when a Florida trial court certified a nationwide smokers' class action lawsuit against the major domestic cigarette companies and two tobacco industry organizations for injuries allegedly caused by smoking. Nearly five years ago, the Florida Supreme Court decertified the class and instructed that certain jury findings relating to the tobacco defendants' products and conduct would "have res judicata effect" in individual damages actions brought by former Engle class members. Since that time, the question of how to properly apply the "Engle findings" in accordance with the Florida Supreme Court's directive \'97 and whether and to what extent giving those findings preclusive effect in Engle progeny cases would violate the tobacco defendants' due process rights \'97 has confronted the state and federal trial courts tasked with resolving thousands of these cases. After a number of twists and turns, that question is before this Court for a second time. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 I. Background
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 A. The Engle \'a0 Litigation
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The extensive history of the Engle litigation was recently summarized by the Eleventh Circuit: 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Almost two decades ago, six individuals filed a lawsuit in Florida state court [**2] against the major domestic makers of cigarettes and two industry organizations seeking over $100 billion in both compensatory and punitive damages for injuries allegedly caused by smoking. Liggett Grp. Inc. v. Engle, 853 So. 2d 434, 440-41 (Fla. 3d DCA 2003)("Engle II"). The plaintiffs asserted claims of "strict liability, negligence, breach of express warranty, breach of implied warranty, fraud, conspiracy to commit fraud, and intentional infliction of emotional distress."  Id. at 441. After some wrangling between the parties and an interlocutory appeal to the Third District Court of Appeal, a class was certified composed of "[a]ll Florida citizens and residents," R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. v. Engle, 672 So. 2d 39, 42 (Fla. 3d DCA 1996) ("Engle I"), "and their survivors who have suffered, presently suffer or who have died from diseases and medical conditions caused by their addiction to cigarettes that contain nicotine." Engle v. Liggett Grp. Inc., 945 So. 2d 1246, 1256 (Fla. 2006) ("Engle III"). There were estimated to be at least 700,000 class members.  Id. at 1258; Engle II, 853 So. 2d at 442. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 To manage the class action, the trial court developed a trial plan that had three phases. See Engle III, 945 So. 2d at 1256. Phase I was a year-long trial that involved only "common issues relating ... to the defendants' conduct and the general health effects of smoking." Id. The jury was given a verdict form at the end of Phase I containing a series of questions. The verdict form asked the [*1248] jury to answer "yes" or "no" to each question for specific time periods for each of the defendants. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The Engle class came close to running the table-the jury answered "yes" to almost every question put to them. The jury found: (1) that smoking cigarettes causes 20 of 23 listed diseases or medical conditions; (2) that cigarettes containing nicotine are addictive or dependence producing; (3) that the defendants placed cigarettes on the market that were defective and unreasonably dangerous; (4) that the defendants made a false statement of a material fact, either knowing the statement was false or misleading, or being without knowledge as to its truth or falsity, with the intention of misleading smokers; (4a) that the defendants concealed or omitted material information, not otherwise known or available, knowing the material was false and misleading, or failed to disclose a material fact concerning or proving the health effects and/or addictive nature of smoking cigarettes; (5) that the defendants entered into an agreement to misrepresent information relating to the health effects of cigarette smoking, or the addictive nature of smoking cigarettes, with the intention that smokers and members of the public rely to their detriment; (5a) that the defendants entered into an agreement to conceal or omit information regarding the health effects of cigarette smoking, or the addictive nature of smoking cigarettes, with the intention that smokers and members of the public rely to their detriment; (6) that the defendants sold or supplied cigarettes that were defective in that they were not reasonably fit for the uses intended; (7) that the defendants sold or supplied cigarettes that, at the time of sale [**3] or supply, did not conform to representations of fact made by the defendants either orally or in writing; (8) that the defendants failed to exercise the degree of care that a reasonable cigarette manufacturer would exercise under like circumstances; (9) that the defendants engaged in extreme and outrageous conduct or with reckless disregard relating to cigarettes sold to Florida smokers with the intent to inflict severe emotional distress; and (10) that the defendants' conduct rose to a level that would permit a potential award or entitlement to punitive damages. See id. at 1257 n. 4. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 In Phase I, however, the jury was not asked whether the class had proven any of its claims; it did not decide if the defendants were liable to anyone on any cause of action. See Engle III, 945 So. 2d at 1246 ("In Phase I, the jury decided issues related to Tobacco's conduct but did not consider whether any class members relied on Tobacco's misrepresentations or were injured by Tobacco's conduct."); Engle II, 853 So. 2d at 450 ("In Phase [I], the jury answered certain general questions about the defendants' products and conduct. The questions related to some, but not all of the elements of each legal theory alleged. ... The jury did not determine whether defendants were liable to anyone. Essential elements of liability, such as reliance and proximate cause, were [not] tried in Phase I."). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Later, in Phase II, the same jury did determine that the defendants' conduct was the legal cause of three individual class representatives' injuries. The three were awarded a total of $12.7 million in compensatory damages after their comparative fault was taken into account. Engle III, 945 So. 2d at 1257. The jury also awarded a lump sum of $145 billion in punitive damages to the entire Engle class. Id.
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Before Phase III[ \'97 in which new juries were to decide the individual liability and damages claims for each individual class member \'97 ]could be conducted, the [*1249] defendants appealed the verdicts the jury had returned in Phases I and II. Engle II, 853 So. 2d at 441-42; see also Brown v. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., 576 F. Supp. 2d 1328, 1332 (M.D. Fla. 2008)[("Bernice Brown I")]. The appeal resulted in a Third District Court of Appeal decision that the Engle class should be decertified. The court concluded that class action treatment was inappropriate because "the plaintiffs smokers' claims [we]re uniquely individualized and [could not] satisfy the 'predominance' and 'superiority' requirements imposed by Florida's class action rules." Engle II, 853 So. 2d at 444. The court also reversed the compensatory damages award in favor of the three individual class representatives, finding that none of them had valid claims against any of the defendants. As for the punitive damages award, the court reversed it on a variety of grounds that are not relevant to the present case. See id. at 470. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The class appealed the Third District Court of Appeal's decision to the Florida Supreme Court. That court agreed that the punitive damages award to the class should be reversed, Engle III, 945 So. 2d at 1254, and agreed with the reversal of the compensatory damages award to one of the three individual class representatives,  id. at 1276. However, the court reinstated the compensatory [**4] damages award to the other two class representatives. Id. For our purposes though, the most important parts of the Engle III decision are those involving certification of the Engle class and the jury's findings in Phase I. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The Florida Supreme Court decided that the trial court had not abused its discretion in certifying the Engle class for Phases I and II but also decided that "continued class action treatment for Phase III of the trial plan [was] not feasible because individualized issues such as legal causation, comparative fault, and damages [would] predominate."  Id. at 1267-68. As for the jury's findings in Phase I, the court threw out four of them but determined that the remainder could stand.[fn2] See Engle III, 945 So. 2d at 1255. (We will refer to the findings that were not thrown out by the Florida Supreme Court as the Phase I "approved" findings.) The court then set out where the case should go from there: 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 ["]The pragmatic solution is to now decertify the class, retaining the jury's Phase I findings other than those on the fraud and intentional infliction of emotion distress claims, which involved highly individualized determinations, and the findings on the entitlement to punitive damages questions, which was premature. Class members can choose to initiate individual damages actions and the Phase I common core findings we approved above will have res judicata effect in those trials.["] Id. at 1269 (emphasis added). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Brown v. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., 611 F.3d 1324, 1326-29 (11th Cir. 2010) ("Bernice[*1250] Brown II") (footnote in original; other footnotes omitted).[fn3]
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 B. The Engle \'a0 Progeny Cases and Bernice Brown 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Former Engle class members who wished to pursue "individual damages actions" were required to file their claims within one year of the Florida Supreme Court's mandate in Engle III, which left a deadline of January 11, 2008. Engle III, 945 So. 2d at 1277. An estimated 9,000 individual suits, which have come to be known as "Engle progeny cases," were brought within the one-year window created by the Florida Supreme Court's savings period. (See Report of Temporary Special Master on Case Management of Engle Progeny Cases ("TSM Report"), Engle Master Docket Doc. 147, at 18.) Several thousand such Engleprogeny cases were either timely filed in \'97 or removed to \'97 this Court in late 2007 and early 2008. See Bernice Brown I, 576 F.Supp.2d at 1334. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 In their complaints before this Court, the plaintiffs asserted that the Phase I approved findings preclusively established the conduct elements of their Engle progeny claims, meaning they need only prove up "specific causation, apportionment of damages, comparative fault, compensatory damages, and punitive damages" in their individual actions. Bernice BrownII, 611 F.3d at 1329. The tobacco defendants disagreed, and moved pursuant to Fed.R.Civ.P. 16(c) for a pretrial ruling "to determine the preclusive effects of the Engle Phase I findings and determine whether those findings may be used to establish any of the elements of Plaintiffs' various claims and whether such use may be done in accordance with the dictates of established preclusion law and constitutional due process." Bernice Brown I, 576 F.Supp.2d at 1334. In an Order dated August 28, [**5] 2008, another Judge of this Court determined that under Florida preclusion law "the findings [could] not be given preclusive effect in any proceeding to establish any element of an Engle plaintiff's claim."  Id. at 1348. As "an additional basis for its decision," the Court found that allowing the Phase I approved findings to establish elements of an Engle plaintiff's cause of action would violate the defendants' due process rights.  Id. at 1344-46. At the parties' request, the Bernice Brown I decision was certified to the Eleventh Circuit for interlocutory appeal.  Id. at 1348.[*1251] [fn4] 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The Eleventh Circuit began its analysis of the Engle preclusion issue by noting that, pursuant to the Full Faith and Credit Act, 28 U.S.C. \'a7 1738, "a federal court must 'give preclusive effect to a state court judgment to the same extent as would courts of the state in which the judgment was entered.'" Bernice Brown II, 611 F.3d at 1331 (quoting Kahn v. Smith BarneyShearson Inc., 115 F.3d 930, 933 (11th Cir. 1997)). In other words, "the Phase I approved findings must be given the same preclusive effect in this federal court case that they would be given if the case were in state court. Florida preclusion law controls." Id. Without the benefit of a Florida appellate court decision directly addressing the preclusive scope of the Phase I approved findings, the Eleventh Circuit canvassed existing Florida preclusion law to determine precisely what "res judicata effect" they would be given in a Florida state court. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 As an initial matter, the Eleventh Circuit determined that the Florida Supreme Court's reference to "res judicata" was necessarily a reference to "issue preclusion" rather than "claim preclusion" because "factual issues and not causes of action were decided in Phase I."  Id. at 1333.[fn5] In Florida, the Court noted, issue preclusion "only operates to prevent the re-litigation of issues that were decided, or 'actually adjudicated,' between the parties in an earlier lawsuit;" that is, the doctrine "prevents 'parties from litigating in the second suit issues-[i.e.] points and questions-common to both causes of action and which were actually adjudicated in the prior litigation.'"  Id. at 1334 (quoting Gordon v.Gordon, 59 So. 2d 40, 44 (Fla. 1952)). The Court found that "Florida courts have enforced [this] 'actually adjudicated' requirement with rigor," such that "[i]ssue preclusive effect is not given to issues which could have, but may not have, been decided in an earlier lawsuit between the parties." Id.(citations omitted). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Applying the "actually adjudicated" requirement to the Engle findings, the Court concluded that "the Phase I approved findings may not be used to establish facts that were not actually decided by the jury." Id. The Court thus declined to address whether using the approved findings to establish facts which may not have been "actually decided" would violate Defendants' due process rights "because under Florida law the findings could not be used for that purpose anyway." Id. "The bottom line," the Court concluded, "is that the Phase I approved findings may be given effect to the full extent of, but no farther than, what the jury found. The disagreement is about [**6] what the jury actually did find." Id.
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 To determine "what the jury found," the Eleventh Circuit interpreted Florida law to require "the asserting party to show with a 'reasonable degree of certainty' that the specific factual issue was determined in [*1252]its favor."  Id. at 1335 (quoting Seaboard Coast LineR.R. Co. v. Indus. Contracting Co., 260 So. 2d 860, 864-65 (Fla. 4th DCA 1972) (emphasis added). The Court explained that an Engle progeny plaintiff could utilize "[t]he entire record" to meet this burden, "point[ing] to specific parts of [the record] to support its position, so long as those parts of the record combine to show to a reasonable degree of certainty that the jury made the specific factual determination that is being asserted." Id. [fn6] In closing, the Court noted: 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 In the pre-trial order that is the subject of this interlocutory appeal, the district court decided that the Phase I approved findings may not be used to establish any element of the plaintiffs' causes of action. The district court reached that conclusion without first giving preclusive effect to the Phase I approved findings. The Phase I approved findings have to be given preclusive effect; they do establish some facts that are relevant to this litigation. Otherwise, the Florida Supreme Court's statement in Engle III  that the Phase I approved findings were to have "res judicata effect" in trials involving former class members would be meaningless. It is for the district court to determine, for example, whether the jury's answer to Question 3 [i.e., that the defendants placed cigarettes on the market that were defective and unreasonably dangerous] establishes only that the defendants sold some cigarettes that were defective and unreasonably dangerous, or whether the plaintiffs have carried their burden of showing to a reasonable degree of certainty that it also establishes that all of the cigarettes that the defendants sold fit that description. See Seaboard, 260 So. 2d at 864-65. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Until the scope of the factual issues decided in the Phase I approved findings is determined, it is premature to address whether those findings by themselves establish any elements of the plaintiffs' claims. Only after Florida law is properly applied to determine the scope of the facts established by the approved findings can it be decided which, if any, elements of the claims are established by them. Accordingly, the district court's ruling that "the findings may not be given preclusive effect in any proceeding to establish any element of an Engle Plaintiff's claim," cannot stand, at least not at this time. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Id. at 1335-36 (emphasis added). The Eleventh Circuit thus vacated and remanded, leaving it to this Court "to apply Florida law as we have outlined it and decide in the first instance precisely what facts are established when preclusive effect is given to the approved findings."  Id. at 1336. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 After the Eleventh Circuit issued its mandate in August 2010, the parties filed various motions proposing that this Court's stay be lifted in a number of select Engle progeny cases, which would then proceed to discovery and trial. (See Engle Master Docket, [**7] Docs. 5, 6, 8, 9). Following a December 7, 2010 case management [*1253]conference (Engle Master Docket, Doc. 30), the Court entered its First Omnibus Engle Order (EngleMaster Docket, Doc. 42, 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 "First Omnibus Engle Order"), lifting the stay in twelve "lead" cases only.[fn7]With respect to the preclusion issue on remand from Bernice Brown II, the parties were directed to file motions and memoranda in each activated case so that this Court could determine which Engle facts should be given preclusive effect under Florida law as the Eleventh Circuit had outlined it. (First Omnibus Engle Order at 2.) 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 C. Martin 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Before the Court could undertake that task, however, the landscape of Florida preclusion law \'97 specifically as it pertains to Engle \'97 changed. On December 14, 2010, the First District Court of Appeal became the first Florida appellate court to address "the extent to which an Engle class member can rely upon the findings from the class action when she individually pursues one or more Engle defendants for damages." R. J.Reynolds Tobacco Co. v. Martin, 53 So. 3d 1060, 1066 (Fla. 1st DCA 2010).[fn8] In Martin, a cigarette smoker's widow sued RJR seeking damages for her husband's death, alleging causes of action for strict liability, fraud by concealment, conspiracy to commit fraud, negligence, and punitive damages.  Id. at 1064. After a jury trial, the trial judge instructed the jury, in pertinent part: 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 This action has been brought as a part of a case known as the Engle class action. The first issue for your determination ... is whether Benny Martin was a member of the Engle class. Certain findings from that action are binding upon you, the Court and the parties. The findings may not be denied or questioned, and they must carry the same weight they would have if you had determined them yourselves. The established findings are: Finding one, is that cigarettes are addictive. Finding two, is that cigarettes cause lung cancer. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 If you find that Benny Martin is a member of the Engle  class, certain other findings are binding upon you, the Court and the parties. The findings may not be denied or questioned, and they must carry the same weight they would have if you had determined them yourselves. Those established findings are: Finding three, is that R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company was negligent. Finding four, is that R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company placed cigarettes on the market that were defective and unreasonably dangerous. Finding five, is that R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company conspired with other companies to conceal or omit information regarding the health effect [sic] of cigarettes or their addictive nature or both. Those companies include Phillip Morris, Liggett, Lorillard, Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corporation, individually, and as successors to the American Tobacco Company, the Council for Tobacco Research, USA, Inc., and the Tobacco Institute. Finding six, is that R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, in furtherance of that conspiracy, concealed or omitted material information, not otherwise known or available, knowing that material was false or misleading, or failed to disclose a material fact concerning the health [**8] effects or addictive nature of smoking cigarettes or both. [*1254] 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 * * * 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The findings that I have described to you do not establish that R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company is liable to Mrs. Martin, nor do they establish whether Benny Martin was injured by R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company's conduct or the degree, if any, to which R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company's product was the sole or contributing cause of Benny Martin's death. The findings establish only what they expressly state, and you must not speculate or guess as to the basis for the findings. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Id. at 1064-65 (emphasis added). The jury ultimately found that addiction to RJR cigarettes was a legal cause of Mr. Martin's death; RJR's conspiracy to conceal and actual concealment of information was a legal cause of Mr. Martin's death; RJR and Mr. Martin were respectively 66% and 34% responsible for Mr. Martin's death; and punitive damages were warranted. The jury awarded Mrs. Martin $5 million in compensatory damages, which the court later reduced to $3.3 million based on the jury's apportionment of fault, and $25 million in punitive damages.  Id. at 1066. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 On appeal, RJR contended that the trial court, by instructing the jury that Mrs. Martin need not present evidence as to RJR's conduct because those facts had been conclusively established in Phase I, had given the Phase I findings an overly broad preclusive effect: 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 In RJR's view, the findings given res judicata effect by the supreme court facially prove only that RJR at some point manufactured and sold an unspecified brand of cigarette containing an undefined defect; RJR committed one or more unspecified negligent acts; RJR on some occasion concealed unspecified information about the health effects of smoking and the addictive nature of smoking; and RJR and several other entities agreed to conceal said unspecified information. Thus, RJR argues, notwithstanding the Engle findings Mrs. Martin was required to prove Lucky Strike brand cigarettes contained a specific defect rendering the brand unreasonably dangerous; RJR violated a duty of care it owed to Mr. Martin; RJR concealed particular information which, had it been disclosed, would have led Mr. Martin to avoid contracting lung cancer; and RJR was part of a conspiracy to conceal the specified information. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Id. (emphasis added). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The Martin court disagreed with RJR's characterization, which it termed "an application of the supreme court's decision that would essentially nullify it." Id. Rather, the court found, "[n]o matter the wording of the findings on the Phase I verdict form, the jury considered and determinedspecific matters related to the defendants' conduct. Because the findings are common to all class members, Mrs. Martin, under the supreme court's holding in Engle[ III], was entitled to rely on them in her damages action against RJR." Id. at 1067 (emphasis added). However, as the Martin court acknowledged, this conclusion merely begged the question: "to what extent could Mrs. Martin use the Engle findings to establish the elements of herclaims?" Id. (emphasis added). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 In answering this question, the court considered [**9] the Eleventh Circuit's decision in Bernice Brown II. Though it "generally agree[d]" with the Eleventh Circuit's analysis of Florida preclusion law, the Martin court found it "unnecessary to distinguish between [claim or issue preclusion] or to define what the supreme court meant by 'res judicata' to conclude the factual determinations made by the Phase I jury cannot be relitigated by RJR and the other Engle defendants." Id. Most critically, the court disagreed with the Eleventh Circuit's conclusion that "every Engle plaintiff must trot out the class action trial transcript to prove applicability of the Phase I findings." [*1255] Id. Rather, the court held, "the common issues" decided by the Phase I jury, "which the jury decided in favor ofthe class, were the 'conduct' elements of the claims asserted by the class, and not simply, as characterized by the Eleventh Circuit, a collection of facts relevant to those elements." Id. (emphasis in original). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The Martin court found support for its holding in the Final Judgment and Amended Omnibus Order entered by the Phase I trial judge, Engle v. RJReynolds Tobacco Co., No. 94-08273, 2000 WL 33534572 (Fla. Cir.Ct. Nov. 6, 2000). That Order, the Martin court found, "sets out the evidentiary foundation for the Phase I jury's findings on [Mrs. Martin's] claims, and demonstrates that the verdict is conclusive as to the conduct elements of the claims." Martin, 53 So. 3d at 1068. The First DCA thus concluded \'97 "unlike the Eleventh Circuit" \'97 that "the Phase I findings establish the conduct elements of the asserted claims, and individual Engle plaintiffs need not independently prove up those elements or demonstrate the relevance of the findings to their lawsuits, assuming they assert the same claims raised in the class action."  Id. at 1069.[fn9] 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 D. Post-Martin Engle \'a0 Progeny Case Management
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Following the First DCA's decision, this Court granted the Defendants' unopposed request to file briefs addressing the impact of Martin on the Engle preclusion issue. (Engle Master Docket, Doc. 38.) In their initial brief, Defendants conceded that "the state appellate court opinion in Martinbinds this Court on questions of state preclusion law." (Engle Master Docket, Doc. 44 at 1.) However, they disagreed with Martin's holding "as a substantive matter," and argued that "Martin does not (and cannot) conclusively answer whether the Fourteenth Amendment Due Process Clause permits ... plaintiffs [to use] the Engle findings to establish elements of their claims [without first showing] that those precise issues were actually and necessarily determined in their favor by the Engle jury." (Id. at 1-2.) 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Plaintiffs, in contrast, contended that Martin "answer[ed] the issues raised by the Eleventh Circuit in [Bernice Brown II] concerning the evidentiary basis for the preclusive findings." (Engle Master Docket, Doc. 45 at 2.) Specifically, plaintiffs noted that "[t]he Brown court stated issue preclusion under Florida law requires a showing that within reasonable certainty the Engle [Phase] I jury actually adjudicated the factual finding sought to be precluded," and argued that the Martin court had in fact found the Phase I approved findings "[**10] were grounded in the evidence and actually adjudicated." (Id. at 2, 5.) Martin thus "puts to bed any due process arguments," according to plaintiffs, because "the determination that the findings had been 'actually adjudicated' is tantamount to determining that a full and fair opportunity to litigate existed and that the minimum requirements of due process have been satisfied." (Id. at 5-6.) 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 On June 6, 2011, this Court held a Case Management Conference to discuss all matters related to the federal Engleprogeny cases, including the preclusion issue. (EngleMaster Docket, Doc. 173.) Defendants once again acknowledged that Martin's interpretation of Florida preclusion law controls, "unless this Court were to determine that following Martin would violate [*1256]the Defendants' federal due process rights." (EngleMaster Docket, Doc. 171 at 63.) The due process problem could be avoided altogether, Defendants contended for the first time, if the Court applied Florida preclusion law as outlined by the Eleventh Circuit in Bernice Brown II, an approach which Defendants now believed would comport with due process. (Id. at 66-67.)[fn10]
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Plaintiffs reiterated their position that Martin satisfies the record-based inquiry envisioned by the Eleventh Circuit in Bernice Brown II. (Id. at 67.) Notwithstanding that position, plaintiffs' counsel represented that plaintiffs could independently comply with the requirements of the Eleventh Circuit's analysis in Bernice Brown II if required to do so. (Id.) Such compliance would be structured as an offer of proof \'97 a "Brown Proffer" \'97 wherein plaintiffs would identify the issues in a progeny case for which preclusion is sought, supported by specific citations to the Engle record. (See TSM Report at 59-60.) Plaintiffs' "belt and suspenders" approach of complying with Bernice Brown II even though such a showing is not required by Florida preclusion law post-Martin would be in the plaintiffs' best interest, counsel argued, because such compliance would eliminate any due process concerns lingering from Martin's application of Engle. (Engle Master Docket, Doc. 171 at 67.) 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The Court agreed to set the preclusion and due process issues for briefing and a hearing. (Id. at 64, 74.) Accordingly, Defendants filed their Motion To Determine the Preclusive Effect of the Engle Phase I Findings Under Rule 16(c), (Doc. 35), which is the matter presently before the Court. Plaintiffs filed their response in opposition, (Doc. 44), as well as a Brown Proffer purporting to provide Engle record evidence that the Phase I jury decided facts establishing the conduct elements of the Waggoners' claims for strict liability, fraudulent concealment, conspiracy to fraudulently conceal, and negligence. (Doc. 45.)[fn11] Defendants subsequently filed a reply (Doc. 55), and in a hearing on September 7, 2011, (Doc. 61), the record of which is incorporated herein by reference, [*1257]the Court heard argument 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 from the parties and took the matter under advisement. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 E. Jimmie Lee Brown 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 On September 21, 2011, two weeks after this Court heard argument on Defendants' Rule 16(c) motion, the Fourth District [**11] Court of Appeal became the second Florida appellate court to address the Engle preclusion issue. See R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. v. Jimmie Lee Brown, 70 So. 3d 707, 709 (Fla. 4th DCA 2011).[fn12] In Jimmie Lee Brown, as in Martin, a cigarette smoker's widow sued RJR seeking damages for her husband's death, alleging causes of action for strict liability, negligence, fraud by concealment, and civil conspiracy to commit fraud by concealment.  Id. at 711. The case proceeded to trial in two phases. In the first phase, "the jury was asked to determine whether Mr. Brown was a member of the Engle class, i.e. whether he was addicted to RJR cigarettes containing nicotine; and, if so, was his addiction a legal cause of his death." Id. In the second phase, "the jury was to determine (i) whether RJR's conduct was a legal cause of Mr. Brown's death; (ii) comparative fault; and (iii) damages."  Id. at 713.[fn13]
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 In the first phase, the jury answered both class membership questions (i.e., addiction and causation) in Mr. Brown's favor. Id. Before the second phase opening statements began, the trial court instructed the jury that because it had found Mr. Brown to be an Engle class member, it was bound by the following findings: "One, R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company failed to exercise the degree of care which a reasonable cigarette manufacturer would exercise under like circumstances. Two, R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company placed cigarettes on the market that were defective and unreasonably dangerous." Id. Later, at the close of the second phase evidence,[fn14] the trial court instructed the jury as follows: 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 As I instructed you previously, a prior court decided certain issues and made certain findings that are binding on you and the parties in this case. Therefore, I am now instructing you that R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company did the following: One, failed to exercise the degree of care that a reasonably careful cigarette manufacturer would exercise under like circumstances and placed cigarettes on the market that were defective, and unreasonably dangerous. There are two claims that have been presented to you in this case. The first is one of negligence. The issue for your determination on plaintiff's negligence claim, is whether the failure to exercise reasonable care on the part of R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company was a legal cause of Roger Brown's death. ... Negligence is a legal cause of loss, injury or damage if it directly and in natural and continuous sequence produces or contributes substantially to producing such loss, injury or damage so that it can reasonably be said that but for the negligence the loss, injury or damage would not have occurred. In order to be regarded [*1258] as a legal cause of loss, injury or damage, negligence need not be the only cause. Negligence may be a legal cause of loss even though it operates in combination with some other cause, if the other cause occurs at the same time as the negligence and if the negligence contributes substantially to producing the loss. The second claim, the issue for your determination on the plaintiff's strict liability claim is whether the defective and unreasonably dangerous cigarettes [**12] R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company placed on the market were a legal cause of Roger Brown's death. ... A defect in a product is a legal cause of loss, injury or damage if it directly and in natural continuous sequence produces or contributes substantially to producing such loss, injury or damage so that it can reasonably be said that but for the defect the loss, injury or damage would not have occurred. In order to be regarded again as a legal cause of loss, a defect need not be the only cause, a defect may be a legal cause of loss even though it operates in combination with some other cause if 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 the other cause occurs at the same time as the defect and if the defect contributes substantially to producing such loss. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Id. (emphasis added). The jury ultimately found both RJR's negligence and its defective and unreasonably dangerous cigarettes to be legal causes of Mr. Brown's death, and awarded Mrs. Brown compensatory damages.  Id. at 713-14. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 On appeal, RJR argued \'97 as it had in Martin \'97 that "the trial court gave the Engle findings overly broad preclusive effect, relieving the plaintiff of her burden to prove that RJR committed particular negligent acts in violation of a duty of care owed to Mr. Brown and to prove that the cigarettes Mr. Brown smoked contained a specific defect that injured Mr. Brown." Id. at 714. After summarizing the conflicting preclusion analyses in Bernice Brown II and Martin, the Fourth DCA sided with Martin on the ultimate question of Engle's preclusive effect: 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 By and large, we agree with the Eleventh Circuit's determination in Brown that the Florida Supreme Court's reference to the res judicata effect of the Engle findings necessarily meant issue preclusion, not claim preclusion. However, we do not go as far as Brown to require trial courts to evaluate whether any elements of post-Engle plaintiffs' claims are established by the Engle findings. We are constrained by the Florida Supreme Court's decision in Engle III, which held the conduct elements of certain claims were established. In Phase I of Engle, "common issues" relating to "the defendants' conduct and the general health effects of smoking" were litigated, not the entire causes of action. Engle III, 945 So.2d at 1256; see also Rice-Lamar v. City of Fort Lauderdale, 853 So. 2d 1125, 1131 (Fla. 4th DCA 2003) (stating that issue preclusion "does not require prior litigation of an entire claim, only a particular issue"). Therefore, we conclude, as Martin did, that individual post-Engle  plaintiffs need not prove the conduct elements in negligence and strict liability claims, as asserted here. Martin, 53 So.3d at 1069. ... 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Like Martin, and in accordance with Engle III, the Engle  findings preclusively establish the conduct elements of the strict liability and negligence claims as pled in this case. Those elements are not subject to relitigation. Nevertheless, the remaining elements of the underlying claims, i.e. legal causation and damages, must be proven in the second phase of trial. ... 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Id. at 715 (emphasis added). Once the court's analysis of the preclusion issue was [*1259]complete, however, it appended the following proviso: 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 As discussed in more detail in the special [**13] concurrence, we are concerned the preclusive effect of the Engle  findings violates Tobacco's due process rights, but remain compelled to follow the mandate of the supreme court. See Richards v. Jefferson County, 517 U.S. 793, 797, 116 S.Ct. 1761, 135 L.Ed.2d 76 (1996) ("We have long held ... that extreme applications of the doctrine of res judicata may be inconsistent with a federal right that is 'fundamental in character.'") (quoting Postal Tel. Cable Co. v. City of Newport, 247 U.S. 464, 476, 38 S.Ct. 566, 62 L.Ed. 1215 (1918)). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Id. at 716 (emphasis added).[fn15] Chief Judge May's special concurrence then chronicled the legal uncertainty and due process concerns that have arisen in Engle III's wake. In particular, the concurrence cited Justice Wells' dissent in Engle III (which called the retention of the Phase I findings "problematic" rather than "pragmatic," Engle III, 945 So. 2d at 1284 (Wells, J., dissenting)) as foreshadowing, and Martin and Bernice Brown I & II as embodying, Engle's troubling implications for trial and appellate courts.  Id. at 718-20 (May, C.J., specially concurring). The concurrence then concluded with the following flourish: 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 What the trial courts are playing is a form of legal poker. They must use the legal cards they have been dealt \'97 the Engle factual findings are binding. But, as R.J. Reynolds argues, a number of ultimate factual issues remain unresolved as identified by the dissent in Engle and the Eleventh Circuit in Brown. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 And, a lurking constitutional issue hovers over the poker game: To what extent does the preclusive effect of the Engle  findings violate the manufacturer's due process rights? 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Until our supreme court answers these and other questions, parties to the tobacco litigation will continue to play legal poker, placing their bets on questions left unresolved by Engle and calling the bluff of trial courts on a myriad of issues sure to rise from the hundreds, no thousands, of cases pending in trial courts throughout our State. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Id. at 720 (emphasis added).[fn16]
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 For the sake of completeness, this Court instructed the parties to file supplemental briefs addressing the effect, if any, of Jimmie Lee Brown on the due process arguments raised by Defendants' Rule 16(c) motion. (Doc. 67.) The parties have now done so (Docs. 78, 80), and this matter is ripe for resolution.[fn17]
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 II. Discussion
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The preclusive use of the Phase I approved findings permeates all aspects of [*1260]the Engle progeny litigation, from discovery to trial.[fn18] Nearly five years removed from EngleIII, courts continue to struggle with the extent to which those findings should be given "res 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 judicata effect" in the "individual damages actions" brought by former Engleclass members, as the Florida Supreme Court requires. Intertwined with the practical difficulties of affording the Florida Supreme Court's intended preclusive effect to the Phase I approved findings is the "lurking constitutional issue" whether doing so violates Defendants' due process rights. Reaching that ultimate issue, however, requires this Court to untangle the complicated web of Engle III, Bernice Brown II, Martin, and Jimmie Lee Brown. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 A. Erie \'a0 and Full Faith and Credit
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 As the Eleventh Circuit recognized in Bernice Brown II, "the Phase [**14] I approved findings must be given the same preclusive effect in this federalcourt case that they would be given if the case were in state court. Florida preclusion law controls." Bernice Brown II, 611 F.3d at 1331 (emphasis added). This application of Florida preclusion law to the federal Engleprogeny cases is compelled by \'97 and accomplished through \'97 the operation of two independent doctrines: full faith and credit and Erie. The Full Faith and Credit Act, 28 U.S.C. \'a7 1738, requires that a federal court "give preclusive effect to a state court judgment to the same extent as would courts of the state in which the judgment was entered." Bernice Brown II, 611 F.3d at 1331 (quotation omitted). However, identifying the appropriate state rules to determine the preclusive scope of the Engle judgment requires application of Erie principles. See Erie R.R. Co. v. Tompkins, 304 U.S. 64, 78 (1938). Thus, while this federal court must, pursuant to the Florida Supreme Court's direction, give "res judicata effect" to the Phase I approved findings as a matter of full faith and credit, Erie provides the vehicle for determining what "res judicata effect" actually means under Florida law. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Under normal circumstances, the decision of the Florida Supreme Court in Engle III \'97 which purported to mandate how the findings should be used \'97 would have been the starting and stopping point for this analysis. See MolinosValle Del Cibao, C. por A. v. Lama, 633 F.3d 1330, 1348 (11th Cir. 2011) ("Where the highest court \'97 in this case, the Florida Supreme Court \'97 has spoken on the topic, we follow its rule.") However, the sui generis nature of the Engle case, coupled with the Florida Supreme Court's imprecise "res judicata" terminology, left the exact scope of Phase I's preclusive effect unclear. Cf. id. ("Where [the state's highest] court has not spoken, however, we must predict how [that] court would decide this case.") It was for this reason that both another Judge of this Court and the Eleventh Circuit, in Bernice Brown I & II, undertook analyses of Florida preclusion law to predict how and to what extent Florida courts would apply the findings under the directive of Engle III. Ultimately, the Eleventh Circuit concluded \'97 under Florida preclusion law as it existed at the time \'97 that Engle progeny plaintiffs could only use the Phase I approved findings to establish elements of their claims in federal court if they could demonstrate with a "reasonable degree of certainty" that the "specificfactual issue" in question was actually and necessarily determined by the jury. Bernice Brown II, 611 F.3d at 1334-35 (emphasis added). [*1261]
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 As detailed supra, shortly after the Eleventh Circuit issued its mandate, two Florida intermediate appellate courts determined that the Phase I approved findings are preclusive as to the conduct elements of an Engleprogeny plaintiff's claims. See Martin, 53 So.3d at 1069 ("[U]nlike the Eleventh Circuit, we conclude the Phase I findings establish the conduct elements of the asserted claims, and individual Engle plaintiffs need not independently prove up those elements or demonstrate the relevance of the findings to their lawsuits, assuming they assert the same claims raised [**15] in the class action"); Jimmie Lee Brown, 70 So. 3d at 715 ("We are constrained by the Florida Supreme Court's decision in Engle III, which held the conduct elements of certain claims were established. ... Like Martin, and in accordance with Engle III, the Engle findings preclusively establish the conduct elements of the strict liability and negligence claims as pled in this case. Those elements are not subject to relitigation"). Further, both courts expressly disagreed with Bernice Brown II by holding that an Engle progeny plaintiff need not demonstrate, with reference to the Engle record or otherwise, that specific determinative facts underpinning the conduct elements of their claims were "actually adjudicated" by the Phase I jury. See Martin, 53 So.3d at 1067("[W]e do not agree every Engle progeny plaintiff must trot out the class action trial transcript to prove applicability of the Phase I findings. ... The common issues, which the jury decided in favor of the class, were the 'conduct' elements of the claims asserted by the class, and not simply, as characterized by the Eleventh Circuit, a collection of facts relevant to those elements") (emphasis in original); Jimmie Lee Brown, 70 So. 3d at 715("[W]e do not go as far as [the Eleventh Circuit in] Brown to require trial courts to evaluate whether any elements of post-Engle plaintiffs' claims are established by the Engle findings"). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Under Erie, this Court is now bound by the holdings in Martin and JimmieLee Brown on questions of Florida preclusion law as it pertains to Engle,[fn19]notwithstanding the Eleventh Circuit's decision in Bernice Brown II. SeeMolinos, 633 F.3d at 1348 ("As a general matter, we must follow the decisions of [Florida's] intermediate [appellate] courts" absent "persuasive evidence [which] demonstrates that the highest court would conclude otherwise"); see also Ad-Vantage Tel. DirectoryConsultants, Inc. v. GTE Directories Corp., 943 F.2d 1511, 1520 (11th Cir. 1991) (a district court may depart from an appellate mandate where "an intervening change in the controlling [state] lawdictates a different result" (emphasis in original)). Accordingly, both sides readily acknowledge that this Court must give preclusive effect to the Phase I approved findings to the same extent the Florida appellate courts in Martin and [*1262]Jimmie Lee Brown did. That is, of course, unless doing so would violate Defendants' federal due process rights. See Salve Regina College v. Russell, 499 U.S. 225, 226 (1991) ("Erie mandates that a federal court sitting in diversity apply the substantive law of the forum State, absent a federal statutory or constitutional directive to the contrary"); see also Richards, 517 U.S. at 797 ("State courts are generally free to develop their own rules for protecting against the relitigation of common issues or the piecemeal resolution of disputes. We have long held, however, that extreme applications of the doctrine of res judicata may be inconsistent with a federal right that is 'fundamental in character'") (citations omitted). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 B. The Phase I Findings
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Defendants argue that the application of Florida issue preclusion law as announced in Martin and Jimmie Lee Brown is inconsistent with their federal due [**16] process rights. Citing to a number of early Supreme Court collateral estoppel cases, Defendants contend "[d]ue process requires 'certainty' that the earlier jury actually decided the specific issues that Plaintiff seeks to preclude from further litigation." (Doc. 55 at 2) (emphasis in original).[fn20]Defendants assert that Martin and Jimmie Lee Brown cannot be squared with this standard insofar as they hold that the Phase I findings preclusively establish the conduct elements of the Engle class claims, regardless of whether the jury actually decided that the particular conduct relevant to an individual progeny plaintiff was wrongful. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The issue, in a nutshell, is as follows. The Engle Phase I jury was asked a number of questions on the Phase I verdict form. The jury initially found that "smoking cigarettes cause[s]" certain enumerated diseases (Finding 1) and that "cigarettes that contain nicotine [are] addictive or dependence producing" (Finding 2).[fn21] (Phase I Verdict Form, Doc. 35, Ex. 7 at 1-2). The jury also answered "yes" to each of the following questions, which were asked about each separate Defendant: [*1263]
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \'95 Did the Defendant in question "place cigarettes on the market that were defective and unreasonably dangerous" (Finding 3); 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \'95 Did the Defendant in question "conceal or omit material information, not otherwise known or available, knowing that the material was false or misleading [sic], or fail[] to disclose a material fact concerning or proving the health effects and/or addictive nature of smoking cigarettes" (Finding 4(a)); 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \'95 Did the Defendant in question enter "into an agreement to conceal or omit information regarding the health effects of cigarette smoking, or the addictive nature of smoking cigarettes, with the intention that smokers and members of the public rely to their detriment" (Finding 5(a)); 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \'95 Did the Defendant in question sell or supply "cigarettes that were defective in that they were not reasonably fit for the uses intended" (Finding 6); and 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \'95 Did the Defendant in question "fail[] to exercise the degree of care which a reasonable cigarette manufacturer would exercise under like circumstances" (Finding 8). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 (Id. at 2-11.) While these findings are reasonably specific, Defendants contend that they offer more questions than answers about what the jury actually determined. Taking, for example, the product defect finding (Finding 3), Defendants note that the Engle class did not pursue a single theory of defect, but rather alleged a number of discrete design defects. One such defect theory focused on the Defendants' use of ammonia in their products. The Engle class claimed that Defendants used ammonia to increase the pH of cigarette smoke, which allegedly enhanced the impact of nicotine on the brain. However, "it was undisputed that ammonia was used only in certain brands of cigarettes and only at certain times." (Doc. 35 at 15.) The jury could have accepted the ammonia defect theory while rejecting the others (such as the allegation of misplaced ventilation holes in "light" or "low-tar" cigarettes), and still answered "yes" to the defect question. Thus, Defendants [**17] contend, it is impossible to determine which allegation was "actually decided" by Finding 3.[fn22]
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Further, even if it could be shown that Finding 3 rested on the Phase I jury's acceptance of the ammonia allegations, that finding would have no relevance to the claims of a plaintiff who never smoked ammoniated cigarettes. Defendants therefore argue that instructing an Engle progeny jury, e.g., that Defendants "placed cigarettes on the market that were defective and unreasonably dangerous" \'97 without first requiring a showing that the Phase I jury actually determined the specific defect alleged by the progeny plaintiff \'97 gives the findings an overly broad preclusive effect.[fn23]Such a broad application of the Engle findings violates due process, Defendants conclude, because it fails to foreclose [*1264]all alternative theories upon which the Phase I jury could have reached its verdict. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Defendants' concerns about the appropriate breadth of the Phase I findings, of course, were previously considered by the Eleventh Circuit in Bernice Brown II. There, the Court summarized the issue as follows: 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 For example, Question 3 on the verdict form asked the jury: "Did one or more of the Defendant Tobacco Companies place cigarettes on the market that were defective and unreasonably dangerous?" The jury answered "yes," for every time period for every defendant except [one]. Under the defendants' view, the only fact that the jury found was that they sold some cigarette that was defective and unreasonably dangerous during the time periods listed on the verdict form. That would mean that the finding may not establish anything more specific; it may not establish, for instance, that any particular type or brand of cigarette sold by a defendant during the relevant time period was defective and unreasonably dangerous. Under the plaintiffs' broader view the jury's finding must mean that all cigarettes the defendants sold were defective and unreasonably dangerous because there is nothing to suggest that any type or brand of cigarette is any safer or less dangerous than any other type or brand. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Bernice Brown II, 611 F.3d at 1335. Despite acknowledging these practical difficulties created by the Phase I findings, the Eleventh Circuit did not decide the question of whether Defendants' narrow view or plaintiffs' broad view of their meaning was the more appropriate one. Instead, the Court interpreted Florida preclusion law to place the burden on plaintiffs to show with a "'reasonable degree of certainty' that the specific factual issue was determined in [their] favor," and left it to this Court to determine, after a review of plaintiffs' record-based showing, the true scope of the Phase I approved findings: "Only after Florida law is properly applied to determine the scope of the facts established by the approved findings can it be decided which, if any, elements of the claims are established by them."  Id. at 1336.[fn24]
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Defendants acknowledge that the Eleventh Circuit's record-based approach has been replaced, as a matter of Florida law, by Martin and Jimmie LeeBrown[**18] .[fn25] Despite this, the Eleventh Circuit's analysis remains relevant to the issue before this Court for two reasons: one, because Defendants take the position that an application of Florida law as the Eleventh Circuit outlined it would be consistent with due process (and conversely, that this Court's failure to follow Bernice Brown II would be inconsistent with due process);[fn26] and [*1265]two, because plaintiffs take the position that they can nevertheless satisfy the Eleventh Circuit's "reasonable degree of certainty" requirements through a "BrownProffer."[fn27] Thus, before 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 addressing the merits of Defendants' due process arguments, the Court briefly considers whether plaintiffs' Brown Proffer satisfies the Eleventh Circuit's interpretation of Florida preclusion law so as to obviate the "lurking constitutional issue hover[ing] over the [Engle] poker game." Jimmie Lee Brown, 70 So. 3d at 720 (May, C.J., specially concurring). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 C. Plaintiffs' Brown \'a0 Proffer
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Plaintiffs contend that their Brown Proffer, which relies primarily on citations to the Engle trial record and the Phase I trial judge's Final Judgment and Amended Omnibus Order, "serves to demonstrate, to a reasonable degree of certainty, that [the Phase I approved findings] were actually litigated and decided in Plaintiffs' favor." (Doc. 45 at 1.) Defendants disagree, and think plaintiffs' Brown Proffer "establish[es] conclusively" that plaintiffs' proposed use of the Phase I findings violates due process. (Doc. 50 at 1.) The reason for the disconnect is simple: because the parties have markedly different opinions about what the Phase I jury found, they also have markedly different opinions about what type of evidentiary showing was envisioned by the Eleventh Circuit in Bernice Brown II. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Plaintiffs, unsurprisingly, take a broad view of what is precluded by the Phase I approved findings. They contend that Engle was, at bottom, "a case about addiction to cigarettes [containing] nicotine," and it was the presence of that addictive agent in every cigarette \'97 and the health consequences that resulted from the smokers' addiction \'97 which made all of Defendants' products defective. (Doc. 65 at 56.) Plaintiffs assert that viewed in this context, Findings 1 and 2 ("[c]igarettes that contain nicotine are addictive, and because they are addictive, they cause serious injury or death") demonstrate that the jury necessarily determined "all the tobacco companies' cigarettes were defective because they all contained addictive levels of nicotine." (Id.at 71.) The remainder of the findings, plaintiffs posit, flow naturally from this overarching product defect finding; thus, Finding 3 would conclusively establish that Defendants "placed cigarettes on the market that were defective and unreasonably dangerous" \'97 precisely as the trial courts instructed the respective juries in Martin and Jimmie Lee Brown. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Plaintiffs thus interpret Bernice Brown II as requiring only that they demonstrate, to a reasonable degree of certainty, that all cigarettes sold by Defendants were defective [*1266](or relatedly, that the Engle record is replete [**19] with evidence that no such cigarette was safer than any other).[fn28] Accordingly, plaintiffs' BrownProffer (Doc. 45) advances the general 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 proposition (with record support) that "all of the evidence" in the Engletrial record "is focused on the addictiveness of the product and the serious injury that results therefrom. The Brown proffer is all about the defect and all about the fraud and the conspiracy related to the defect." (Doc. 65 at 79-80.) Because of this generalized approach, plaintiffs' Brown Proffer actually highlights the myriad defect, negligence, and concealment theories advanced during the Phase I trial in an attempt to prove that the approved findings were "well supported in the Engle trial record." (Doc. 44 at 2.) 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Defendants acknowledge that Bernice Brown II allows plaintiffs to go beyond the Phase I findings and to comb the Engle trial record for evidence of what the jury determined; they further acknowledge that that record is rife with evidence of Defendants' wrongful conduct. However, Defendants argue that the record-based showing envisioned by the Eleventh Circuit is one which isolates specific findings that the Engle jury must have made to reach its general verdict, because only those findings \'97 assuming they are relevant to the progeny plaintiff in question \'97 can be given preclusive effect. Under Defendants' view, plaintiffs' Brown Proffer "proves what Defendants have been saying all along, namely, that the Engle jury was presented with so many differing and contradictory theories that [no] progeny plaintiff can demonstrate to any degree of certainty what the jury 'actually decided' beyond the generic propositions reflected in the findings themselves." (Doc. 55 at 3.) But Defendants go even further than this, claiming that even if plaintiffs were to compile the most thorough BrownProffer imaginable to support their all-cigarettes-are-defective theory, it still would not satisfy either the Eleventh Circuit's requirements or federal due process such that the Phase I findings could be applied in the manner plaintiffs seek.[fn29] In other words, their position is that due to the generality of the Phase I findings and the multiple theories of liability advanced in the trial record, plaintiffs simply can't get there (due process) from here (a Brown Proffer). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 This Court could review plaintiffs' Brown Proffer in detail to determine whether it "demonstrate[s], to a reasonable degree of certainty, that [the Phase I [*1267]approved findings] were actually litigated and decided in Plaintiffs' favor," and thus complies with Bernice BrownII. (Doc. 45 at 1.) However, Defendants' position that no Brown Proffer could ever satisfy due process renders that exercise fruitless. Even if this Court were to accept outright plaintiffs' interpretation of the Phase I findings as having determined "that all the tobacco companies' cigarettes were defective because they all contained addictive levels of nicotine," and thus, that a compliant Brown Proffer requires only confirmation that the Phase I jury was presented with "ample evidence" supporting [**20] the multiple theories upon which its findings could have rested, Defendants would respond with the same argument they are making now \'97 that the Proffer improperly fails to foreclose alternate theories of liability, in violation of their due process rights. And we would be back to square one. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Defendants agree that Martin and Jimmie Lee Brown constitute the current Florida issue preclusion law to be applied in Engle progeny cases, and acknowledge that Florida trial courts are giving preclusive effect to the Phase I findings in accordance with those decisions. Rather than decide the issue in this federal case on the basis of plaintiffs' record-based showing \'97 a showing which Martin and Jimmie Lee Brown do not require \'97 the more appropriate approach is to tackle head-on Defendants' position that the application of Florida preclusion law in Martin and Jimmie Lee Brown is inconsistent with due process. The Court therefore declines plaintiffs' invitation to hold that their Brown Proffer satisfies the requirements of Bernice Brown II or of federal due process, as neither finding is required to decide the issue before the Court. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 D. Due Process
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 While "[s]tate courts are generally free to develop their own rules for protecting against the relitigation of common issues or the piecemeal resolution of disputes," Richards, 517 U.S. at 797, those rules and their attendant applications by subsequent state or federal courts are subject to a constitutional backstop: the Due Process Clause. Due process protects those rights "so rooted in the traditions and conscience of our people as to be ranked as fundamental." Snyder v. Massachusetts, 291 U.S. 97, 105 (1934). Accordingly, the Supreme Court has held that "extreme applications of the doctrine of res judicata may be inconsistent with a federal right that is 'fundamental in character.'" Richards, 517 U.S. at 797 (quoting Postal Tel., 247 U.S. at 476); see also Kremer v. Chem. Constr. Corp., 456 U.S. 461, 481(1982) (holding that for federal court to grant full faith and credit to state court judgment, state proceedings must "satisfy the minimum procedural requirements of the Fourteenth Amendment's Due Process Clause"); Fayerweather, 195 U.S. at 297-99 (recognizing that federal/state court can violate Fifth/Fourteenth Amendment due process where giving preclusive effect to state court judgment would "depriv[e] [a party] of their property without any judicial determination of the fact upon which alone such deprivation could be justified"). The critical first step in this constitutional analysis is to determine the fundamental federal right at issue. Cf. Richards, 517 U.S. at 797 n. 4. Only then can it be determined whether the application of res judicata in question is so "extreme" as to be inconsistent with that right. Cf. id. at 803. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Defendants' due process argument rests entirely on one premise \'97 that a state's strict adherence to the boundaries of traditional preclusion law, as set forth in the Fayerweather line of cases, supra n. 19, is a "fundamental federal right." That premise can be subdivided into two main [*1268]hypotheses. The first is Defendants' contention that the federal common law of issue preclusion is coextensive with [**21] due process \'97 in other words, that the boundaries of traditional preclusion law represent a substantivelimitation on the states' ability to "develop their own rules for protecting against the relitigation of common issues or the piecemeal resolution of disputes." The second is Defendants' mostly undeveloped theory that, to the extent Florida has deviated from those traditional boundaries, it has removed a constitutionally guaranteed procedural protection against the deprivation of a fundamental right. The Court addresses each of these matters in turn. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 1. Fundamental Right to "Traditional" Application of Issue Preclusion?
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Defendants first contend that it is a "universally accepted principle of Anglo-American law that issue preclusion is limited to matters that were actually decided in a prior proceeding. As far back as the 19th century, courts agreed that a party cannot be precluded from litigating an issue unless it could be shown with certainty that 'the precise question was raised and determined in the former suit.'" (Doc. 35 at 10) (quoting Russell, 94 U.S. at 608). Defendants thus assert that "[d]ue process requires 'certainty' that the earlier jury actually decided the specific issues that Plaintiff seeks to preclude from further litigation;" or, more precisely, that due process "forbids issue preclusion where evidence 'was offered at the prior trial upon several distinct issues, the decision of any one of which would justify the verdict or judgment.'" (Doc. 55 at 2, 4) (emphasis in original); supra n. 20. They argue that the version of Florida preclusion law advanced in Engle III, Martin and Jimmie Lee Brown, to the extent it allows for preclusion without requiring a definitive showing that every specific issue was "'actually litigated and determined in the original action,'" falls short of this "constitutional standard." (Doc. 55 at 4) (quoting Cromwell, 94 U.S. at 353). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Defendants' primary support for this position is Fayerweather, in which they contend the Supreme Court "expressly held" those traditional limitations on preclusion "to be constitutionally required." (Doc. 35 at 11) (emphasis added). Fayerweather did recognize that improper preclusive application of a state court judgment in a later federal or state proceeding can be inconsistent with Fifth or Fourteenth Amendment procedural due process. See Fayerweather, 195 U.S. at 297-99. What it did not do, however, is announce that litigants have a substantive right to the application of traditional preclusion doctrine. In fact, Fayerweather analyzed the issue before it, which involved the proper preclusive effect of a state judgment entered in an action on a will, under a different constitutional rubric altogether. The question before the Court was whether the trial court had determined the validity of certain releases executed by the plaintiffs \'97 which would have destroyed their otherwise undisputed right to share in the Fayerweather estate \'97 so that preclusive effect could be given to that issue in a collateral federal action. Because the validity of the releases was "the fact upon which alone" the petitioners would be deprived [**22] of their right to share in the estate, the Court found that an application of res judicata absent proper determination of that fact would work an arbitrary deprivation of petitioners' property.  Id. at 298-99 (emphasis added).[fn30]Accordingly, contrary to Defendants' assertions, the Fayerweather Court did not [*1269]announce that a party has a "fundamental federal right" to a strict application of traditional preclusion law. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Nor does Fayerweather stand for the broader proposition that an application of state preclusion law which fails to foreclose all alternate theories of liability necessarily violates due process. The issue in Fayerweather turned upon whether the trial judge, who was sitting without a jury and had entered a general verdict with no findings of fact, had actually decided whether the releases were valid. Petitioners called the trial judge as a witness in the subsequent litigation, where he testified (some six years after the fact) that he had not considered the question of the validity of the releases in deciding the case. See id. at 306. The Supreme Court found that the testimony of the trial judge was inappropriate, and noted that, apart from the judge's testimony, there was nothing "to disturb the conclusion which follows from an examination of the record, that the validity of the releases was actually determined. Of course, theomission of special findings means nothing, for the judgment implies afinding of all necessary facts."  Id. at 307 (emphasis added). The Court then found: 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Nothing can be clearer from this record than that the question of the validity of the releases was not only before the state courts, but was considered and determined by them, and the regularity of the procedure was sustained by the highest court of the state. The question was, as affirmed by counsel for these appellants, put in issue by the pleadings, and its determination was a necessary prerequisite to an adverse judgment. It was referred to by all the courts in their opinions, was affirmatively decided by the general term, its decision sustained by the court of appeals, and reaffirmed by that court, by a refusal to amend its remittitur. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Id. at 308 (emphasis added). The Court thus upheld the application of collateral estoppel against petitioners, despite the fact that the judgment given preclusive effect arose from a general verdict and the finder of fact specifically disavowed having determined the issue in question. As a result, Defendants' contention that the Fayerweather Court "expressly held" that giving "'unwarranted effect to a decision' by accepting as 'a conclusive determination' a verdict 'made without any finding of the fundamental fact' would violate due process" is patently incorrect. (Doc. 35 at 11) (emphasis added). In fact, because the Court ultimately determined that the application of collateral estoppel was proper, the doctrine's due process implications did not factor into the Court's decision whatsoever. SeeFayerweather, 195 U.S. at 307-08. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Fayerweather certainly does support Defendants' contention that a proper application [**23] of the federal commonlaw of collateral estoppel required the precise fact to have been determined by the former judgment.[fn31]But the fact that the Court [*1270]bifurcated its analysis on 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 the question of whether an alleged relaxation of this requirement could result in a constitutional violation \'97 asking whether this was an improper application of res judicata on the one hand, and whether that application infringed on the right to not be arbitrarily deprived of one's property on the other \'97 cripples Defendants' argument that due process and traditional preclusion law are one and the same.[fn32] The other early Supreme Court collateral estoppel cases cited by Defendants \'97 DeSollar, Russell, and Cromwell, all of which, like Fayerweather, predate Erie \'97 do not mention due process at all. Accordingly, like Fayerweather, they also do not stand for the proposition that the application of a state's collateral estoppel law in derogation of any particular traditional preclusion principle would be necessarily violative of due process. And Defendants have provided no case that does.[fn33] 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 As Fayerweather itself reinforces, a state's departure from common law issue preclusion principles does not implicate the Constitution unless that departure also violates "the minimum procedural requirements of the Fourteenth Amendment's Due Process Clause," Kremer, 456 U.S. at 480; see alsoOberg, 512 U.S. at 432 (state's abrogation of judicial review of excessive punitive damage awards removed lone procedural [*1271]safeguard against arbitrary deprivation of property);[fn34] Richards, 517 U.S. at 802 (state's application of res judicata gave preclusive effect to a judgment against litigants without affording them opportunity to be heard). Likewise, this federal Court does not abridge Defendants' due process rights by affording preclusive effect to the Phase I approved findings as Florida courts have done in Martinand Jimmie Lee Brown and as it is bound to do pursuant to Erie 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 and the Full Faith and Credit Act, unless doing so violates a fundamental right protected by the Due Process Clause. See Fayerweather, 195 U.S. at 299. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 2. Inconsistent with Any Recognized Fundamental Right?
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 This brings us full circle to the question of exactly which fundamental right is allegedly being offended here. Defendants contend that "giving preclusive effect to the Phase I findings without imposing the traditional requirement that the identical issue was actually decided in the prior proceeding would comprise an arbitrary deprivation of the Defendants' federal due process rights guaranteed under the Fourteenth Amendment." (Doc. 35 at 10) (quotation omitted). But they consistently fail to identify exactly which constitutionally guaranteed right is being "arbitrarily deprived," or how.[fn35]
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Instead, Defendants cast a wide net for any constitutional hook which would turn Florida's alleged misapplication of traditional preclusion law into a departure from the tenets of fundamental fairness. For example, Defendants cite to Oberg, 512 U.S. at 430, for the proposition that Martinand Jimmie Lee Brown have wrought an "abrogation of a well-established common-law protection against arbitrary [**24] deprivations of property." (Doc. 35 at 11.) However, they do not explain how this or any court's application of the Engle findings in accordance with Florida preclusion principles either arbitrarily deprives them of property or removes all safeguards which would protect them from such an occurrence. They bury deep in a footnote the contention that Defendants "have a due process right to a 'full and fair opportunity' to litigate all elements of all of plaintiffs' claims and to receive an actual finding of fact as to each," (Doc. 55 at 10 n. 3) (quoting Kremer, 456 U.S. at 480) (emphasis added), but do not pursue this argument any further.[fn36] And they cite to Richards \'97 a case in which the Supreme Court reversed a state court's application of res judicata on the grounds that it deprived plaintiffs of the opportunity to be heard \'97 for the proposition that the Florida courts' use of the Engle findings is "extreme," (Doc. 35 at 11), but do [*1272]not otherwise adopt the Court's analysis or claim that they have been denied their day in court. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Thus, while Defendants' argument is long on how Martin and Jimmie LeeBrown mark an "extreme" departure from traditional issue preclusion, it is short on why this alleged departure is unconstitutional. Their argument is therefore classic bootstrapping: essentially, Defendants are contending that Florida's "extreme" application of preclusion law violates due process because it is an "extreme" application of preclusion law. Nevertheless, the Court will examine the traditional attributes of the of Due Process Clause's protections to see if Defendants' constitutional rights might be violated by Florida's preclusive application of the Phase I findings. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 A. Arbitrary Deprivation of Property?
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 As noted supra, the Supreme Court has found that a state or federal court's preclusive application of a state court judgment can, under certain circumstances, directly violate the fundamental constitutional protection against arbitrary deprivation of property. See Fayerweather, 195 U.S. at 299. More recently, the Court held that a state's "abrogation of a well-established common-law protection against arbitrary deprivations of property raises a presumption that its procedures violate the Due Process Clause." Oberg, 512 U.S. at 430 (emphasis added). The Court thus considers whether the preclusive application of the Phase I approved findings compelled by Florida law deprives Defendants of this fundamental right either directly (i.e., application of the findings directly leads to a judgment against Defendants) or indirectly (i.e., via Florida's alleged deviation from traditional preclusion rules). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 As to the first question, whether the proposed preclusive application of the Phase I approved findings "depriv[es] them of their property without any judicial determination of the fact upon which alone such deprivation couldbe justified," Fayerweather, 195 U.S. at 299 (emphasis added), the answer must be no. As the Florida Supreme Court noted in Engle III, the Phase I jury "decided issues related to [Defendants'] conduct but did not consider whether any class members relied on [Defendants'] [**25] misrepresentations or were injured by [Defendants'] conduct." Engle III, 945 So. 2d at 1263. In other words, the Phase I jury "did not determine whether the defendants were liable to anyone." Id. (quotation omitted). Defendants continue to vigorously litigate each and every remaining issue in each and every progeny suit, meaning that preclusive application of the Phase I approved findings in no way deprives them of property without "judicial determination of the fact upon which alone" would result in a judgment in favor of any progeny plaintiff.[fn37] Perhaps as a result, Defendants do not even imply that affording the Phase I approved findings preclusive effect will arbitrarily deprive them of property in this traditional sense. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Defendants do contend, however, that Florida's alleged abandonment of a tenet of traditional preclusion law is the sort of "abrogation of a well-established common-law protection against arbitrary [*1273]deprivations of property," Oberg, 512 U.S. at 430, that violates Fourteenth Amendment due process. In Oberg, the Court addressed the question of "what procedures are necessary to ensure that punitive damages are not imposed in an arbitrary manner[; m]ore specifically, the question is whether the Due Process Clause requires judicial review of the amount of punitive damages awards."  Id. at 420. The Supreme Court noted that "[p]unitive damages pose an acute danger of arbitrary deprivation of property," and expressed concern that in the absence of traditional judicial review, Oregon law provided no procedure for reducing or setting aside an excessive punitive damages award on the sole basis of the amount awarded.  Id. at 432 (emphasis added). The Court ultimately found that Oregon's lack of procedure amounted to a due process violation: 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Judicial review of the amount awarded was one of the few procedural safeguards which the common law provided against that danger. Oregon has removed that safeguard without providing any substitute procedure and without any indication that the danger of arbitrary awards has in any way subsided over time. For these reasons, we hold that Oregon's denial of judicial review of the size of punitive damages awards violates the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Id. (emphasis added). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Though Defendants cite to Oberg for the general proposition that a change to traditional preclusion law removes a protection against the arbitrary deprivation of property, they do not explain how an application of Florida law which gives preclusive effect to the conduct elements of plaintiffs' claims has eliminated all safeguards against such a deprivation in the context of the Engle case. And unlike in Oberg, where the Supreme Court expressly noted that Oregon had removed one of the few procedural safeguards against excessive punitive damages, Florida law continues to offer Defendants a panoply of procedural protections against an arbitrary deprivation of their property. For example, in order to even obtain the benefit of the Phase I approved findings, Mrs. Waggoner must first establish class membership. To do so, she must prove to a jury, inter [**26] alia, (i) that she was addicted to one of Defendants' cigarettes containing nicotine;[fn38] (ii) that such addiction was the legal cause of her lung cancer;[fn39] (iii) that those diseases manifested before the class membership cut-off date;[fn40] and (iv) that no other procedural bar prevents any aspect of her claim.[fn41] If a jury makes those findings in [*1274]Mrs. Waggoner's favor, she is entitled to application of the Engle Phase I findings as directed by Martin and Jimmie Lee Brown. However, she must still prove legal causation for each of her asserted claims against each Defendant, reliance with regard to her fraud claims, and entitlement to damages. Assuming the jury finds Defendants liable, it might still return a zero award on the basis of Mrs. Waggoner's comparative fault. Even if the jury does award Mrs. Waggoner damages, that award is subject to multiple layers of judicial review for trial error and excessiveness.[fn42] Given all of this, it is hard to see how Florida's preclusive application of the EnglePhase I findings, in and of itself, works an arbitrary deprivation of Defendants' property. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 B. Deprivation of the Opportunity to be Heard?
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Defendants next claim that it is inconsistent with due process for this Court to apply the Phase I approved findings in way that "deprive[s] Defendants of an opportunity to contest issues that were not actually decided against them in the Engle proceedings." (Doc. 55 at 1). Defendants have cited no case in which the Supreme Court has found that the failure to abide by traditional preclusion law's "actually decided" requirement runs afoul of a litigant's opportunity to be heard. When pressed at oral argument, Defendants' counsel could provide only one analogue \'97 Richards. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Richards involved taxpayers who filed a state-court action claiming that a county occupational tax was unconstitutional. 517 U.S. at 794-95. The trial court granted summary judgment for the county on state constitutional grounds, finding that the taxpayers' claims were barred by a prior adjudication of the tax in a separate action to which the taxpayers were not parties.  Id. at 795. The trial court's decision was ultimately upheld by the Alabama Supreme Court, which found that this relaxation of privity was appropriate under Alabama preclusion law because the interests of the taxpayers in Richards and the taxpayers in the former action were "essentially identical."  Id. at 796. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The Supreme Court took certiorari directly from the Alabama Supreme Court, and reversed.  Id. at 797. The Court began by noting that while "state courts are generally free to develop their own rules for protecting against the relitigation of common issues or the piecemeal resolution of disputes ... extreme applications of the doctrine of res judicata may be inconsistent with a federal right that is 'fundamental in character.'" Id. The Court identified the "fundamental right" at issue in Richards as "the opportunity to be heard," which it termed "an essential requisite of due process of law in judicial proceedings:" 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 'And as a State may not, consistently with the Fourteenth Amendment, enforce [*1275] a judgment against a party [**27] named in the proceedings without a hearing or an opportunity to be heard, so it cannot, without disregarding the requirement of due process, give a conclusive effect to a prior judgment against one who is neither a party nor in privity with a party therein.' 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Id. at 797 n. 4 (quoting Postal Tel., 247 U.S. at 476); see also id. at 794("[I]t would violate the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment to bind litigants to a judgment rendered in an earlier litigation to which they were not parties and in which they were not adequately represented") (citing Hansberry v. Lee, 311 U.S. 32, 37 (1940)). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Though it noted that "the limits on a state court's power to develop estoppel rules reflect the general consensus in Anglo-American jurisprudence that one is not bound by a judgment in personam in a litigation in which he is not designated as a party or to which he has not been made a party by service of process," the Court recognized that there were instances in which this very basic right, the right to receive notice and an opportunity to litigate a claim before being forever foreclosed from doing so, had been relaxed \'97 for example, in the class action or representative context.[fn43]  Id. at 798-99. But the Court found Alabama's "relaxation" of privity inappropriate, because there was no relation whatsoever between the taxpayers in the prior proceeding and the taxpayers challenging the county occupational tax in Richards.  Id. at 801. As the prior litigants were mere "strangers," and the Richards taxpayers neither participated in nor had the opportunity to participate in the prior litigants' action, the Supreme Court concluded that "due process prevents the former from being bound by the latter's judgment."  Id. at 802. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Unlike Richards, the parties to the Engle case and the Engle progeny cases are one and the same. Recognizing as much, at oral argument, counsel for Defendants contended that the application of collateral estoppel in this case is more "extreme" than that in Richards because while there has been "a lot of relaxation of privity [requirements]," Martin and Jimmie Lee Browneffected a change on "something that's fundamental to due process, which is, you don't impose liability on somebody unless some jury has actually determined that you're liable." (Doc. 65 at 41.) Yet, the Supreme Court has made clear post-Fayerweather that privity is the touchstone for any analysis of res judicata's due process implications. See Richards, 517 U.S. at 797 n. 4; Blonder-Tongue, 402 U.S. at 329 ("Some litigants-those who never appeared in a prioraction-may not be collaterally estopped without litigating the issue. They have never had a chance to present their evidence and arguments on the claim. Due process prohibits estopping them despite one or more existing adjudications of the identical issue which stand squarely against their position") (emphasis added); Hansberry, 311 U.S. at 40 ("State courts are free to attach such descriptive labels to litigations before them as they may choose and to [*1276]attribute to them such consequences as they think appropriate under state constitutions and laws, subject only to the requirements of the Constitution of the United States. But [**28] when the judgment of a state court, ascribing to the judgment of another court the binding force and effect of res judicata, is challenged for want of due process it becomes the duty of this Court to examine the course of procedure in both litigations to ascertain 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 whether the litigant whose rights have thus been adjudicated has beenafforded such notice and opportunity to be heard as are requisite to the dueprocess which the Constitution prescribes") (emphasis added and citation omitted). Accordingly, every modern Supreme Court case which has addressed the intersection of preclusion and due process has found privity to be the one fundamental right which preclusion doctrine must not abrogate. See,e.g., Richards, 517 U.S. at 797 n. 4; Blonder-Tongue, 402 U.S. at 329; Parklane Hosiery, 439 U.S. at 327 n. 7 ("It is a violation of due process for a judgment to be binding on a litigant who was not a party or a privy and therefore has never had an opportunity to be heard"); Hansberry, 311 U.S. at 40-41 ("It is a principle of general application in Anglo-American jurisprudence that one is not bound by a judgment in personam in a litigation in which he is not designated as a party or to which he has not been made a party by service of process. A judgment rendered in such circumstances is not entitled to the full faith and credit which the Constitution and statute of the United States prescribe, and judicial action enforcing it against the person or property of the absent party is not that due process which the Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments require") (citations omitted). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Moreover, while Alabama's application of res judicata in Richards totallyforeclosed the taxpayers' opportunity to litigate their claims, that is simply not the case here. Engle began as a class action in which all of the progeny plaintiffs and each of the Defendants, represented by able counsel, were interested parties. In Phase I, the jury \'97 after a year-long trial in which myriad defect, negligence and fraud theories were vigorously litigated \'97 determined "common issues relating exclusively to the defendants' conduct" vis-avis the causes of action raised by the Engle class. Engle III, 945 So. 2d at 1256 (emphasis added). In other words, the Engle Phase I trial was conducted for the explicit purpose of determining issues related to the Defendants' conduct which were common to the entire class, meaning Defendants had every reason to litigate each potential theory of liability to the fullest extent possible. Further still, the Phase I jury's findings as to Defendants' conduct were reviewed by the state's highest court, which approved the findings for future preclusive use, with the caveat that those findings didnot determine Defendants' ultimate liability to any individual class member.  Id. at 1263. Thus, as the Eleventh Circuit recognized, these same tobacco Defendants "had their day in court on the 'common issues' of fact that weredecided in Phase I, and later approved by the Florida Supreme Court, but they did not have their day in court on the broader questions involving the causes of action the class asserted [i.e., individualized issues such as legal causation, comparative fault, [**29] and damages], which were left undecided." Bernice Brown II, 611 F.3d at 1333 (emphasis added). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Further evidence of the deficiency of Defendants' due process argument can be found by analyzing Phase II of the original Engle case. In Phase II, three plaintiffs (Mary Farnan, Frank Amadeo and Angie Della Vecchia), armed with the Phase I findings, proved up causation, damages, reliance and proportionate fault. The jury [*1277]awarded compensatory damages to each, and the Florida Supreme Court affirmed the compensatory judgments as to Farnan and Della Vecchia.[fn44] The judgments in those cases were achieved by marrying the Phase I findings with the Phase II findings, just as plaintiffs seek to do in the remainderof the progeny cases. Defendants do not contend that their due process rights were violated 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 in Phase II of the Engle case \'97 rather, they argue that Engle Phase II was different in two ways: one, because the same jury made both the conduct and causation determinations; and two, because the use of the Phase I findings in Phase II wasn't technically collateral estoppel, but rather the continuation of the original litigation. These attempts to distinguish Phase II's importance are unpersuasive, given the unique structure of this litigation. Defendants do not deny that they had their day in court, in a class action setting, on the "common issues" of the claims asserted by the Engle class. Progeny plaintiffs, to take advantage of the Phase I findings, must assert the same claims raised in the class action. As such, it simply does not make sense as a matter of due process that it was acceptable for Farnan and Della Vecchia to match the Phase I findings with the Phase II findings, but it is unacceptable for subsequent plaintiffs, each of whom were members of the same class, to do the exact same thing.[fn45] Such a conclusion ignores that had the Engle class never been decertified, the Phase I findings would have already conclusively established the conduct elements for every member of the class, including the Waggoners. By decertifying the class and requiring progeny plaintiffs to bring individualized damages claims, the Florida Supreme Court gave Defendants greater procedural protection than they enjoyed under the original class action posture. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 As Defendants' counsel recognized at oral argument, the Engle progeny litigation is unlike any this Court has seen or is likely to see again. (Doc. 65 at 31 ("I'll be the first to admit that this situation is suigeneris and this hopefully will not be replicated anywhere else.")) Such a unique situation demands some flexibility to accommodate the due process interests of both the Defendants and the thousands of Engle progeny plaintiffs. Fortunately, the Supreme Court has recognized that the Due Process Clause retains such flexibility. See Kremer, 456 U.S. at 483. The Engle progeny cases are in essence a sui generis extension of the original litigation; the Phase I findings may be given the preclusive effect afforded them by Engle III, Martin and Jimmie Lee Brown without running afoul of the Due Process Clause. [*1278]
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 III. Jury [**30] Instructions
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 As this Court is bound to give the Phase I approved findings the same preclusive effect as a Florida court would, and has determined that doing so does not offend due process, the Court next considers one lingering question about the mechanics of this application. Though Martin and Jimmie Lee Brownare in accord on the preclusive scope of the Phase I findings (and therefore this Court will fashion appropriate implementing jury instructions), those cases diverge on the question of how to properly instruct a jury on the issues of class membership and legal causation. The question is an important one because plaintiffs' burden of proving causation is one of the primary procedural safeguards erected by the Florida Supreme Court in Engle III. SeeEngle III, 945 So. 2d at 1263 ("In Phase I, the jury decided issues related to Tobacco's conduct but did not consider whether any class members relied on Tobacco's misrepresentations or were injured by Tobacco's conduct.") 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 In Martin, the trial court instructed the jury that to establish Mr. Martin's entitlement to the Phase I approved findings, it needed to find that he was addicted to cigarettes and that smoking cigarettes containing nicotine caused his death. However, the court did not thereafter require the jury to make a separate finding that any of Defendants' conduct, as alleged in the underlying claims, was the legal cause of Mr. Martin's death. The practical result of Martin's approach is that a progeny plaintiff need only prove that addiction to cigarettes caused his injury, and is thereafter alleviated from establishing that Defendants' conduct was also a legal cause of that injury. See Jimmie Lee Brown, 70 So. 3d at 714 ("We read Martin to approve the use of the class membership instruction for the dual purpose of satisfying the element of legal causation with respect to addiction and legal causation on the underlying ... claims.") 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Conversely, the trial court in Jimmie Lee Brown, utilizing a two-phase trial, bifurcated this causation inquiry. In the first phase, "the jury was asked to determine whether Mr. Brown was a member of the Engle class, i.e. whether he was addicted to RJR cigarettes containing nicotine; and, if so, was his addiction a legal cause of his death." Id. In the second phase, "the jury was to determine (i) whether RJR's conduct was a legal cause of Mr. Brown's death; (ii) comparative fault; and (iii) damages."  Id. at 713. The Fourth DCA, in approving the trial court's approach, disavowed Martin to the extent that the First DCA appeared to "equat[e] the legal causation instruction used on the issue of addiction with a finding of legal causation on the plaintiff's strict liability and negligence claims."  Id. at 716. As the Fourth DCA explained: 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Legal causation on the issue of addiction is separate and apart from legal causation on the strict liability and negligence claims in this instance. Post-Engle plaintiffs do not satisfy their burden of proving legal causation in a strict liability or negligence claim by merely establishing class membership in the first phase of trial. To satisfy this requirement, [**31] a jury must be asked to determine (i) whether the defendant's failure to exercise reasonable care was a legal cause of decedent's death; and (ii) whether the defective and unreasonably dangerous cigarettes were a legal cause of decedent's death. In the present case, the trial court correctly required the jury to make these critical determinations. ... 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 It is at this point that we depart from the First District's decision in Martin, because there specific instructions on legal causation on the negligence and [*1279] strict liability claims were not given to the jury. Martin, 53 So.3d at 1064-66. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Id. at 715-16. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 This Court is of the opinion that the bifurcated causation inquiry endorsed by the Fourth DCA in Jimmie Lee Brown is the better way to proceed because it requires a specific causal link between Defendants' conduct and a progeny plaintiff's injuries and damages. That said, the Court does not go quite so far as to require that class membership be determined in an entirely separate trial phase, as the trial court did in Jimmie Lee Brown. Rather, the Court intends to conduct one trial and instruct the jury as to all issues \'97 including class membership and legal causation regarding the underlying claims \'97 and thereafter utilize a special verdict form. The special verdict form, which will be explained to the jury during jury instruction, will first ask the jury to make findings as to the class membership questions (i.e., addiction and addiction causation). Should the jury find the progeny plaintiff to be an Engle class member, it will then make specific findings as to whether Defendants' conduct was a legal cause of injury for each claim asserted. After these causation questions have been answered by the jury, they will (if necessary) proceed to address the question of comparative fault. This construct will provide more specificity on the causation question, while remaining true to the Florida Supreme Court's directive in Engle III. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 IV. Conclusion
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 This Court must determine whether Engle III, Martin, and Jimmie Lee Browncombine to deny Defendants their constitutional due process rights. Defendants had full notice and opportunity to be heard in the year-long trial of Phase I of the Engle case. Special jury findings that individually addressed each Defendant's conduct went against the Defendants. The Florida Supreme Court's decision in Engle III (as implemented by Martin and JimmieLee Brown) to give those Phase I findings "res judicata" effect for future cases was a constitutionally permissible application of Florida issue preclusion law in these sui generis cases.[fn46] "We must bear in mind that no single model of procedural fairness, let alone a particular form of procedure, is dictated by the Due Process Clause. The very nature of due process negates any concept of inflexible procedures universally applicable to every imaginable situation." Kremer, 456 U.S. at 483 (citations and quotations omitted). Defendants' due process rights are not being violated. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Accordingly, it is hereby 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 ORDERED: 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Defendants' Motion To Determine the Preclusive Effect of the Engle Phase I [**32] Findings Under Rule 16(c) (Doc. 35) is GRANTED to the extent that the Court has determined the preclusive effect of the Engle Phase I findings, and will proceed as stated in this Order.[*1280] [fn47]
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn2] The Florida Supreme Court threw out the jury's findings in response to Question 4, which involved fraud and misrepresentation, and Question 9, which involved intentional infliction of emotional distress. Engle III, 945 So. 2d at 1255. The court explained that the jury's findings in response to those questions were "nonspecific" and were "inadequate to allow a subsequent jury to consider individual questions of reliance and legal cause." Id. The court also threw out the jury's finding in response to Question 5, which involved civil conspiracy-misrepresentation, reasoning that finding could not stand because it "relie[d] on the underlying tort of misrepresentation." See id. Finally, the court threw out as premature the jury's finding in response to Question 10 that the plaintiffs were entitled to punitive damages. See id. at 1269. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn3] On May 21, 2007, Defendants petitioned the U.S. Supreme Court for a writ of certiorari from Engle III. Notably, one of the questions presented by Defendants' petition was "[w]hether the Due Process Clause prohibits a state court from giving preclusive effect to a jury verdict when it is impossible to discern which of numerous alternative grounds formed the basis for the jury's findings of wrongful conduct." R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. v.Engle, 2007 WL 1494692 at *i (2007). On October 1, 2007, the Supreme Court denied the petition without opinion. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. v. Engle, 552 U.S. 941 (2007). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn4] The Court considered and decided the preclusion issue in Bernice BrownI with the understanding that that decision would impact each federal Engleprogeny case. The issue was addressed via Rule 16(c) motion because the parties agreed that "a preliminary ruling on the preclusive effects of the Phase I verdict w[ould] shape the scope of discovery the parties may conduct in order to fairly litigate this matter."  Id. at 1335. On October 14, 2008, the parties filed a Joint Motion to Stay requesting that this Court "stay discovery and pretrial proceedings in all pending Engle progeny cases" pending final resolution of interlocutory appeals in Bernice Brown I and Cooper v. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., 586 F.Supp.2d 1312 (M.D.Fla. 2008). (Case No. 3:07-cv-761-J-25HTS, "Brown Docket," Doc. 59 at 4.) On October 30, 2008, after the Eleventh Circuit granted the interlocutory petition in Bernice Brown I, (Brown Docket, Doc. 62), this Court granted the parties' request for a stay and the stay went into effect. (Brown Docket, Doc. 60.) 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn5] Specifically, the Court stated: 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 In Phase I the same parties as in the present lawsuit litigated "common issues" relating to "the defendants' conduct and the general health effects of smoking." Engle III, 945 So.2d at 1256; ...  id. at 1267-68 (explaining that the Engle class must be prospectively decertified because "individualized issues such as legal causation, comparative fault, and damages [would] predominate"). "The idea underlying [claim preclusion] is that if a matter has already been decided, the [litigant] has already had his or her day in court, and for purposes of judicial economy, that matter generally will not be reexamined." The defendants had their day in court on the "common issues" of fact that were decided in Phase I, and later approved by the Florida Supreme Court, but they did not have their day in court on the broader questions involving the causes of action the class asserted, which were left undecided. See Engle III, 945 So.2d at 1263. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Bernice Brown II, 611 F.3d 1333 (some citations omitted; emphasis added). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn6] The Court was openly skeptical that plaintiffs could comply with its directive. See id. at 1337 n. 1 (Anderson, J., concurring specially) ("The generality of the Phase I findings present plaintiffs with a considerable task. ..."); see also id. at 1336 n. 11 (majority opinion) (incorporating by reference Judge Anderson's concurring opinion). However, the Court left open the question of whether the Phase I approved findings "can be combined with facts that can be proved through other means" to establish elements of an Engle progeny plaintiff's claims. See id. at 1335 n. 10; see also id. at 1337(Anderson, J., concurring specially) ("[I]t would be premature at this stage of the litigation to conclude that later in this litigation plaintiffs will be unable to use some Phase I findings to contribute to or establish some particular element of a plaintiff's cause of action, perhaps in conjunction with other facts proved in this litigation"). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn7] The Waggoners' case is one of the twelve cases activated by the First Omnibus Engle Order. (See First Omnibus Engle Order at 1 n. 1.) 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn8] The Martin court noted: "This is the first so-called 'Engle progeny' case to reach a district court of appeal following the Florida Supreme Court's decision in [Engle III]."  Id. at 1062. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn9] RJR petitioned the Florida Supreme Court for review of Martin, contending that the First DCA's decision conflicted with existing Florida preclusion law. On July 19, 2011, the Florida Supreme Court declined to accept jurisdiction and denied the petition for review. R.J. ReynoldsTobacco Co. v. Martin, 67 So. 3d 1050 (Fla. 2011). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn10] As the Court noted at the hearing, this position marked a subtle shift in Defendants' due process argument. In Bernice Brown I, Defendants had contended that the Phase I jury findings regarding Defendants' wrongful conduct were too general to have any "res judicata effect" whatsoever, because there was "simply no way to know what specific conduct formed the basis of the findings." (Brown Docket, Doc. 34 at 24). At the June 6 hearing, Defendants back-tracked somewhat, agreeing that plaintiffs' satisfaction of a record-based showing as outlined by the Eleventh Circuit in Bernice Brown II would allow for issue preclusive application of specific conduct findings, and that such an application would be consistent with due process; in other words, that Bernice Brown II equals due process. Thus, in contrast to their previous position, Defendants now concede at least the possibility that plaintiffs could preclusively establish conduct directly from the Phase I record in a way that is consistent with their due process rights. (See Engle Master Docket, Doc. 171 at 66-67). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn11] The Waggoners' Second Amended Complaint (Doc. 21), alleges eight counts: strict liability (Count I); breach of express warranty (Count II); breach of implied warranty (Count III); civil conspiracy to fraudulently conceal (Count IV); fraudulent concealment (Count V); negligence/gross negligence (Count VI); loss of consortium re: Mr. Waggoner (Count VII); and punitive damages (Count VIII). Each count contains an allegation that the Engle Phase I findings "conclusively establish" that the Defendant engaged in the wrongful conduct applicable to that count. (See, e.g., id. \'b6 17) ("With respect to smoking and health and the manufacture, marketing and sale of their cigarettes, the Engle Phase I findings conclusively establish that the cigarettes sold and placed on the market by Defendants were defective and unreasonably dangerous.") 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn12] As with Martin, the "primary issue on appeal" in Jimmie Lee Brown was "how the Engle [Phase I] jury findings should be applied in individual cases." Id.
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn13] This bifurcated causation inquiry differed from the trial court's instructions in Martin, which appeared to conflate the question of Engleclass membership and legal causation. As noted by the Fourth DCA in JimmieLee Brown: "We read Martin to approve the use of the class membership instruction for the dual purpose of satisfying the element of legal causation with respect to addiction and legal causation on the underlying strict liability and negligence claims." Id. at 714. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn14] The Fourth DCA did not describe what evidence was presented in the second phase. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn15] It is unclear in the first instance whether it was uncertainty regarding the legal causation issue, see supra n. 13, or the preclusive effect of the Engle findings more generally, which prompted the Fourth DCA to express its concerns about Defendants' due process rights. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn16] Seizing on the tenor of Chief Judge May's special concurrence and its plea for answers, Defendants requested that the Fourth DCA certify to the Florida Supreme Court the questions (i) whether Bernice Brown II, Martin, or Jimmie Lee Brown gives the correct effect to the Engle findings as a matter of Florida law, and (ii) whether that effect is consistent with federal due process. (See Doc. 78-1 at 3.) On October 21, 2011, the Fourth DCA denied Defendants' request for certification without comment. Thus, as of the date of this opinion, none of the questions raised by Defendants' Rule 16(c) motion are currently before the Florida Supreme Court, nor do they promise to be anytime soon. See supra n. 9. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn17] It seems likely that the Florida Supreme Court will have to eventually revisit the issue of what effect should be given to the Phase I approved findings, and this Court wishes it had the luxury of waiting for that to happen. But with thousands of cases pending here (with the first cases set for trial in February 2012) and no case before the Florida Supreme Court that raises this issue, the Court feels that it cannot wait. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn18] See TSM Report at 46 ("By a wide margin, the preclusive use of [the] Engle findings ... dominate[s] trial issues.") 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn19] In their supplemental brief, Defendants correctly note that JimmieLee Brown conflicts with Martin regarding the extent to which the Phase I approved findings establish legal causation in Engle progeny cases. (See Doc. 78 at 3.) However, as Defendants concede, that question does not affect the due process issue pending before this Court. (Id.) On the question of Florida law relevant to this Court's disposition of Defendants' Rule 16(c) motion \'97 namely, whether the Phase I approved findings preclusively establish the conduct elements of a progeny plaintiff's claims \'97 Martin and Jimmie Lee Brown are in complete accord. According to both the First and the Fourth DCAs, the proper interpretation of Engle III's "res judicata effect" is that the conduct elements of the plaintiffs' claims are established by the Phase I findings; plaintiffs must then prove up the remaining elements of the underlying claims, including legal causation. See Martin, 53 So.3d at 1067; Jimmie Lee Brown, 70 So. 3d at 715. How this Court intends to instruct the jury on legal causation is discussed further in Section III, infra . 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn20] In particular, Defendants rely on Fayerweather v. Ritch, 195 U.S. 276, 307 (1904); De Sollar v. Hanscome, 158 U.S. 216, 221 (1895); Cromwell v. Cnty. of Sac, 94 U.S. 351, 353 (1877); and Russell v. Place, 94 U.S. 606, 608 (1877). Succinctly, Defendants cite Fayerweather for the proposition that "the Due Process Clause forbids issue preclusion where evidence 'was offered at the prior trial upon several distinct issues, the decision of any one of which would justify the verdict or judgment.'" (Doc. 55 at 4) (quoting Fayerweather, 195 U.S. at 307). The remaining cases, according to Defendants, "make[] clear that issue preclusion is available only where 'it is certain that the precise fact was determined by the former judgment.'" (Id.) (quoting De Sollar, 158 U.S. at 221). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn21] As a general matter, Defendants agree that the Florida Supreme Court acted lawfully in retaining the Phase I jury's findings on common conduct issues while decertifying the class with respect to the remaining issues of causation, comparative fault, and damages. (See Doc. 65 at 10.) In fact, Defendants agree that the Phase I findings do have certain preclusive effect in Engle progeny cases. Specifically, Defendants concede that the findings establish smoking cigarettes causes certain diseases (Finding 1), and that cigarettes containing nicotine are addictive or dependence producing (Finding 2). (Id. at 10-11; see also Doc. 35 at 6 n. 3 ("Defendants agree that Findings 1 and 2 are sufficiently specific to accord them preclusive effect in the progeny litigation.") In addition, they do not contest preclusive application of the findings as to breach of express warranty (Finding 7). Their issue is with the findings as to: strict liability (Finding 3); fraud by concealment (Finding 4(a)); civil conspiracy-concealment (Finding 5(a)); breach of implied warranty (Finding 6); and negligence (Finding 8), each of which Defendants contend are too general to be given the effect ascribed to them by Martin and Jimmie LeeBrown. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn22] This same flaw, Defendants argue, affects the Waggoners' causes of action for breach of implied warranty, fraud by concealment, conspiracy to conceal, and negligence \'97 i.e., each alleged claim. (See generally Doc. 35.) 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn23] Mrs. Waggoner's case demonstrates how the failure to identify a specific defect could be problematic. The Engle class claimed that the "light" cigarette design was defective because smokers could "compensate" by covering up the ventilation holes, inhaling more deeply, taking more puffs, or smoking more cigarettes. According to Defendants, Mrs. Waggoner testified in her deposition that she did not compensate. Thus, as Defendants' counsel argued, "if the defect is with light cigarettes, is that they allowed compensation, we have some great evidence there. But we don't know what the defect was." (Doc. 65 at 100.) 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn24] "It is for the district court to determine, for example, whether the jury's answer to Question 3 establishes only that the defendants sold some cigarettes that were defective and unreasonably dangerous, or whether theplaintiffs have carried their burden of showing to a reasonable degree ofcertainty that it also establishes that all of the cigarettes that thedefendants sold fit that description." Id. (emphasis added). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn25] Defendants can, and do, argue that Martin and Jimmie Lee Brown are inconsistent with existing Florida preclusion law (which they contend was correctly interpreted by the Eleventh Circuit). However, as Defendants recognize, that is a question for the Florida Supreme Court, not this Court. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn26] Specifically, Defendants argue that the "version of Florida preclusion law that the Eleventh Circuit understood would apply in [BerniceBrown II] would have satisfied [the Fayerweather] due process standard by requiring a progeny plaintiff to make a record-based showing that, despite the generic nature of the Engle jury's findings, the evidence was such that the jury necessarily made a single, specific finding in support of its generic verdict on each claim." (Doc. 55 at 2.) 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn27] At the September 7, 2011 argument, plaintiffs acknowledged what Defendants had also acknowledged: that the Eleventh Circuit instructed this Court to apply Florida preclusion law; that Martin and Jimmie Lee Brown are now the rule of law in Florida on the Engle preclusion question and are binding on this Court; and that if those decisions comply with federal due process and are thus applied by this Court \'97 as they are being applied every day by Florida state trial courts in Engle progeny cases \'97 plaintiffs would be relieved of any burden of proving up the conduct elements of their claims. (See Doc. 65 at 76-87.) Despite all of this, plaintiffs' counsel refused to fully embrace Martin and Jimmie Lee Brown, insisting instead that they intend to satisfy the requirements of Bernice Brown II. (See Doc. 65 at 79 (The Court: "[W]hat is your position on Martin? Mr. Nelson: Our position is we're following [Bernice Brown II].")) When pressed on this, plaintiffs expressed concern that their failure to comply with Bernice Brown II would somehow run afoul of the Eleventh Circuit's mandate. For the reasons stated in the first sentence of this footnote, that concern appears unfounded. However, because plaintiffs are adamant that their Brown Proffer is both necessary and sufficient, the Court will address the issue. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn28] Defendants interpret the Eleventh Circuit's statement that "there is no indication that the jury actually found as a fact that all types and brands of cigarettes were equally defective and unreasonably dangerous,"  id. at 1335 n. 9, to mean that such a showing is impossible. However, the Eleventh Circuit also stated that "[i]t is for the district court to determine, for example, whether the jury's answer to Question 3 [i.e., that the defendants placed cigarettes on the market that were defective and unreasonably dangerous] establishes only that the defendants sold some cigarettes that were defective and unreasonably dangerous, or whether theplaintiffs have carried their burden of showing to a reasonable degree ofcertainty that it also establishes that all of the cigarettes that thedefendants sold fit that description."  Id. at 1336 (emphasis added). Given that the Eleventh Circuit did not pass judgment on the appropriate breadth of the Phase I findings, see supra at 30-31, it is evident the Court did not foreclose at least the possibility that the jury found all of Defendants' cigarettes defective. Rather, as plaintiffs contend, the Court simply placed the burden on plaintiffs to prove it. (See Doc. 65 at 80-82.) 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn29] As Defendants put it, "[s]ubmitting the entire Engle record \'97 with its wide-ranging evidence, directed at establishing multiple facts to support a panoply of distinct theories \'97 as a 'Brown Proffer' only confirms that Plaintiff[s] cannot satisfy any standard of preclusion that comports with due process." (Doc. 55 at 1.) 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn30] This portion of the Court's opinion is not dicta because the constitutional question formed the basis of the Court's jurisdiction. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn31] In Erie, the Supreme Court declared that "[e]xcept in matters governed by the Federal Constitution or by acts of Congress, the law to be applied in any case is the law of the state. ... There is no federal common law." Erie, 304 U.S. at 78. Post-Erie, the analysis in Fayerweather would have looked much different \'97 the Court would have been bound to apply principles of New York state preclusion law to determine whether the validity of the releases was, in fact, properly determined by the trial court. See Allen v. McCurry, 449 U.S. 90, 96 (1980) ("Indeed, though the federal courts may look to the common law or to the policies supporting res judicata and collateral estoppel in assessing the preclusive effect of decisions of other federal courts, Congress has specifically required all federal courts to give preclusive effect to state-court judgments whenever the courts of the State from which the judgments emerged would do so"); Kremer, 456 U.S. at 481-82 ("It has long been established that \'a7 1738 doesnot allow federal courts to employ their own rules of res judicata indetermining the effect of state judgments. Rather, it goes beyond the commonlaw and commands a federal court to accept the rules chosen by the State from which the judgment is taken") (emphasis added). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn32] The pre-Erie collateral estoppel cases cited by Defendants describe the parameters of the federal common law of issue preclusion at that time. Those parameters are not, however, automatically coextensive with federal due process, absent a later Supreme Court case which says so. In fact, the Supreme Court's recognition of states' ability to fashion their own preclusion rules post-Erie suggests that the federal common law of issue preclusion is not strictly coextensive with due process. See, e.g.,Blonder-Tongue Laboratories, Inc. v. University of III. Foundation, 402 U.S. 313, 323-27 (1971) (discussing rejection of the doctrine of mutuality of estoppel, which began with a decision of the California Supreme Court and ultimately worked a "fundamental change in the common-law tradition" of collateral estoppel). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn33] As noted supra, another Judge of this Court previously found that application of the Engle findings to establish any element of a progeny plaintiff's claims would violate Defendants' due process rights. BerniceBrown I, 576 F.Supp.2d at 1346. That decision relied upon Honda Motor Co. v.Oberg, 512 U.S. 415, 430 (1994), to reach the conclusion that "this Court is constitutionally bound to strictly apply the doctrine of issue preclusion consistent with its common law origins."  Id. at 1345-46. Bernice Brown I was ultimately vacated by the Eleventh Circuit, which considered the issue solely as a matter of Florida law, declined to address due process, and did not mention the federal common law origins of issue preclusion. BerniceBrown II, 611 F.3d at 1336. Still, Defendants contend that the Eleventh Circuit acknowledged the common law of issue preclusion as representing the floor of due process, but did not have occasion to decide the issue because of its understanding of Florida preclusion law at the time. See BerniceBrown II, 611 F.3d at 1334 ("[D]efendants contend that using the findings to establish facts that were not decided by the jury would violate their due process rights. We need not decide that constitutional issue, because underFlorida law the findings could not be used for that purpose anyway") (emphasis added). This Court does not agree that the Eleventh Circuit made any pronouncement whatsoever about the parameters of due process. With the benefit of intervening state and federal caselaw, and for the additional reasons stated in this section, this Court departs from the analysis in Bernice Brown I regarding the constitutional requirements of due process as it applies in these Engle progeny cases. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn34] Despite its holding, the Oberg Court noted: "[o]f course, not all deviations from established procedures result in constitutional infirmity."  Id. at 430. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn35] This is primarily because Defendants' argument is premised on the notion that they enjoy a fundamental "right" to a "strict" application of preclusion law, which they do not, for the reasons already stated. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn36] And for good reason \'97 a cursory review of Kremer, which found that the plaintiff there had a "full and fair opportunity" to litigate an employment discrimination claim even though the state's administrative dismissal of his claim ultimately barred his ability to seek redress under Title VII in federal court \'97 shows that it does not support the proposition for which Defendants have cited it. See Kremer, 456 U.S. at 480. Further, Kremer's "full and fair opportunity" language is preclusion language, not due process language. See Parklane Hosiery Co., Inc. v. Shore, 439 U.S. 322, 326-28 (1979) (noting that while federal preclusion law requires a "full and fair opportunity to litigate," the due process right underpinning this principle is the opportunity to be heard); Blonder-Tongue, 402 U.S. at 328-29. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn37] As a further illustration of this point and nothing more, Courtroom View Network's "Engle Verdict Tracker" website, which has "gather[ed] and sort[ed] the results of all Engle-progeny tobacco trials since the first [such] verdict in February 2009," reports that as of November 15, 2011, there have been 53 Engle progeny cases tried to verdict, which have resulted in 36 wins for progeny plaintiffs and 16 wins for Defendants. See CVM's Engle Verdict Tracker, available athttp://info.courtroomview.com/engle-verdict-tracker (last visited December 20, 2011). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn38] As the Temporary Special Master reported, "the dichotomy between addiction and choice" is an issue which dominates Engle progeny trials. TSM Report at 46. "Defendants always argue that Plaintiff enjoyed smoking and smoked for reasons other than addiction, that Plaintiff was strong-willed and stubborn, that Plaintiff ignored warnings and pleas and that Plaintiff did not really try or want to quit. This defense argument has been successful in many cases." Id.
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn39] This, too, is far from a foregone conclusion. As noted by the Temporary Special Master, Defendants have successfully challenged medical causation in state court Engle progeny cases. See id. at 47. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn40] In Engle III, the Florida Supreme Court determined that the cut-off date for class membership was November 21, 1996, meaning that a would-be class member's disease must have manifested itself before that date. EngleIII, 945 So. 2d at 1275. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn41] Assume, for example, that Mrs. Waggoner first developed COPD, and years later developed lung cancer, both of which were caused by smoking. Defendants have successfully argued that if suit was not brought within the limitations period relevant to discovery of the COPD, Florida's "first-injury rule" would bar her recovery for all subsequent injuries (i.e., her lung cancer). TSM Report at 52. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn42] It is worth noting that the Third DCA in Engle II threw out the $145billion punitive damage verdict awarded to the Engle class in Phase I because the award was made in absence of findings of liability and compensatory damages and because the award was excessive under state and federal law, Engle II, 853 So. 2d at 450, 456-57, a decision upheld by the Florida Supreme Court in Engle III. Engle III, 945 So. 2d at 1254. To the extent Defendants feel that an individual punitive damage verdict in any subsequent progeny case is excessive, Defendants may challenge that award in the same manner and on the same state and federal grounds, and the reasonableness of the award will ultimately be assessed pursuant to the Supreme Court's constitutional standard in BMW of N. Am. v. Gore, 517 U.S. 559 (1996). Accordingly, Florida's safeguards against the arbitrary deprivation of property, which were absent in Oberg, are working as designed to protect Defendants' constitutional interests. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn43] "Most notably, there is an exception when it can be said that there is 'privity' between a party to the second case and a party who is bound by an earlier judgment. For example, a judgment that is binding on a guardian or trustee may also bind the ward or the beneficiaries of a trust. Moreover, although there are clearly constitutional limits on the 'privity' exception, the term 'privity' is now used to describe various relationships between litigants that would not have come within the traditional definition of that term."  Id. at 798. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn44] In Engle III, the Florida Supreme Court determined that Amadeo's action was barred by the statute of limitations. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn45] The fact that the same jury made both the conduct and causation determinations for the Phase II plaintiffs, but a different jury would make the latter determination in progeny cases, does not change this conclusion. Given the extensive litigation of Defendants' conduct during Phase I \'97 where all progeny plaintiffs were interested parties \'97 the present scenario is perhaps most analogous to the punitive damages context, where one jury makes certain findings as to a defendant's wrongful conduct and a second jury makes additional, more detailed findings about whether that conduct was the legal cause of plaintiff's injury and, if so, whether the plaintiff is entitled to punitive damages. The Supreme Court has expressed no general due process concerns with such a bifurcated procedure. See State Farm Mut. Auto.Ins. Co. v. Campbell, 538 U.S. 408, 414 (2003) (discussing bifurcated action against insurer alleging bad faith, fraud, and intentional infliction of emotional distress, where first jury determined bad faith and second jury determined insurer's ultimate liability for fraud, intentional infliction of emotional distress, and compensatory and punitive damages). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn46] Though the Defendants have asserted a Seventh Amendment argument in other contexts of the Engle progeny litigation, they have not done so here. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn47] In their Joinder in RJR's Rule 16(c) Motion, Liggett and Vector contend that this Court should deny preclusive effect of the Phase I findings as to them, for differing reasons. (See Doc. 36.) However, plaintiffs did not meaningfully respond to Liggett or Vector's arguments in their responses or at the September 7 hearing. Furthermore, as Liggett and Vector are not parties in this case, the Court declines to address the issue here \'97 it is more appropriately addressed by dispositive motion in one of the activated cases in which Liggett and Vector are named as defendants. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb566\sa1133\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0          
\f0\fs42 General Information\

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 Judge(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Timothy J. Corrigan\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Related Docket(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 3:09-cv-10367 (M.D. Fla.);\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Topic(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Constitutional Law; Civil Procedure\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Date Filed\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 2011-12-20 00:00:00\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Parties\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Victoria WAGGONER and Robert Waggoner, Plaintiffs, v. R.J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO., et al., [fn1] Defendants.\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Case Type\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 SO\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Court\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 United States District Court for the Middle District of Florida\cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\li674\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\fs20 \cf0 Pagination \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 *
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 BL
\f1\fs24 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\li674\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Majority Opinion > Appendix > Appendix > 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0  \uc0\u8232 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 WINN-DIXIE STORES, INC.; WINN-DIXIE STORES LEASING, LLC; WINN-DIXIE RALEIGH, INC.; WINN-DIXIE RALEIGH LEASING, LLC; WINN-DIXIE MONTGOMERY, LLC; and WINN-DIXIE MONTGOMERY LEASING, LLC, Plaintiffs, v. DOLGENCORP, LLC, f/k/a DOLGENCORP, INC., a Kentucky corporation, Defendant/Third Party Plaintiff, WINN-DIXIE STORES, INC,; WINN-DIXIE STORES LEASING, LLC; WINN-DIXIE RALEIGH, INC.; WINN-DIXIE RALEIGH LEASING, LLC; WINN-DIXIE MONTGOMERY, LLC; and WINN-DIXIE MONTGOMERY LEASING, LLC, Plaintiffs, v. DOLLAR TREE STORES, INC., a Virginia corporation, Defendant. WINN-DIXIE STORES, INC.; WINN-DIXIE STORES LEASING, LLC; WINN-DIXIE RALEIGH, INC.; WINN-DIXIE RALEIGH LEASING, LLC; WINN-DIXIE MONTGOMERY, LLC; and WINN-DIXIE MONTGOMERY LEASING, LLC, Plaintiffs, v. BIG LOTS STORES, INC., an Ohio corporation, Defendant/Third-party Plaintiff, 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0  \uc0\u8232 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Case No. 9:11-cv-80601-DMM Case No. 9:11-cv-80638-DMM Case No. 9:11-cv-80641-DMM \
March 9, 2016, Entered on Docket March 8, 2016, Decided \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 For Winn Dixie Stores, Inc., Winn Dixie Stores Leasing, LLC, Winn Dixie Raleigh, Inc., Winn Dixie Raleigh Leasing, LLC, Winn Dixie Montgomery LLC, Winn Dixie Montgomery Leasing, LLC, Plaintiffs, Counter Defendants (9:11-cv-80638-DMM): Ryan Stephen Cobbs, Carlton Fields PA, West Palm Beach, FL; Thomas E. Warner, Carlton Fields Jorden Burt, P.A. City Place Tower, West Palm Beach, FL.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 For Winn-Dixie Stores, Inc., Winn-Dixie Stores Leasing, LLC, Winn-Dixie Raleigh, Inc., Winn-Dixie Raleigh Leasing, LLC, Winn-Dixie Montgomery, LLC, Winn-Dixie Montgomery Leasing, LLC, Plaintiffs, Counter Defendants (9:11-cv-80601-DMM): Ryan Stephen Cobbs, LEAD ATTORNEY, Carlton Fields PA, West Palm Beach, FL; Thomas E. Warner, Carlton Fields Jorden Burt, P.A. City Place Tower, West Palm Beach, FL.\
For Dolgencorp, LLC, Defendant, Third Party Plaintiff (9:11-cv-80601-DMM): Brian P. Watt, Shakara M. Barnes, William N. Withrow, Jr., PRO HAC VICE, Troutman Sanders, LLP, Atlanta, GA.\
For Big Lots Stores, Inc., Consol Defendant, Consol Third Party Plaintiff, Consol Counter Defendant, Counter Defendant(9:11-cv-80601-DMM): Shakara M. Barnes, William N. Withrow, Jr., PRO HAC VICE, Troutman Sanders, LLP, Atlanta, GA; Justin Tinshung Wong, Troutman Sanders LLP, Atlanta, GA.\
For Winn Dixie Stores, Inc., Winn Dixie Stores Leasing, LLC, Winn Dixie Raleigh, Inc., Winn Dixie Raleigh Leasing, LLC, Winn Dixie Montgomery, LLC, Winn Dixie Mongtomery Leasing, LLC, Plaintiffs(9:11-cv-80641-DMM): Thomas E. Warner, Carlton Fields Jorden Burt, P.A. City Place Tower, West Palm Beach, FL.\
For Big Lots Stores, Inc., Defendant, Third Party Plaintiff(9:11-cv-80641-DMM): Brian P. Watt, Shakara M. Barnes, William N. Withrow, Jr., PRO HAC VICE, Troutman Sanders, LLP, Atlanta, GA; Michael Virgil Elsberry, Rebecca Elizabeth Rhoden, Wayne Andrew Sorrell, II, Lowndes Drosdick Doster Kantor & Reed, Orlando, FL.\
For Hudson Bay Trading Company, Third Party Defendant(9:11-cv-80641-DMM): Laura J. Varela, LEAD ATTORNEY, Fort Lauderdale, FL.\
For Lake Wales Associates, LLC, Third Party Defendant(9:11-cv-80641-DMM): Michelle Garcia Gilbert, LEAD ATTORNEY, Gilbert Garcia Group, P.A., Tampa, FL.\
For Sarria Holdings IV, Inc., Ireland Biloxi, LTD, Third Party Defendants (9:11-cv-80641-DMM): Alan Michael Burger, LEAD ATTORNEY, McDonald Hopkins [*2] LLC, West Palm Beach, FL.\
For Ireland Biloxi, LTD, Third Party Defendant (9:11-cv-80641-DMM): Marc Alan Silverman, LEAD ATTORNEY, Frank Weinberg & Black, Plantation, FL.
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 DONALD M. MIDDLEBROOKS, UNITED STATES DISTRICT JUDGE.
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 DONALD M. MIDDLEBROOKS \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 ORDER GRANTING IN PART MOTION TO TAX COSTS
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 THIS CAUSE comes before the Court on Winn-Dixie's Motion to Tax Costs (DE 1110), as well as Bill of Costs as to Dollar General (DE 1108) and Big Lots (DE 1109), filed on January 4, 2016. Defendants Dollar General and Big Lots ("Defendants") filed a response on January 21, 2016 (DE 1114), to which Winn-Dixie replied on February 1, 2016 (DE 1117).1 \
Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 54(d) vests district courts with the discretion to award costs to the prevailing party. A prevailing party is entitled to costs enumerated in 28 U.S.C. \'a7\'a7 1821 and 1920 . Section 1821 provides that witnesses shall be paid attendance fees and certain travel costs for attending depositions and trials. 28 U.S.C . \'a7 1821 . Section 1920 provides that the following costs may be taxed:\
\pard\pardeftab720\li539\ri539\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 (1) Fees of the clerk and marshal;\
(2) Fees for printed or electronically recorded transcripts necessarily obtained for use in the case;\
(3) Fees and disbursements for printing and witnesses;\
(4) Fees for exemplification and the costs of making copies of any materials where the copies are necessarily obtained for use in the case;\
(5) Docket fees under section 1923 of this title;\
(6) Compensation of court appointed experts, compensation of interpreters, and salaries, fees, expenses, and costs of special interpretation services under section 1828 of this title.\
28 U.S.C. \'a7 1920 . Winn-Dixie seeks costs in the amount of $18,305.05 from Big Lots, $28,392.42 from Dollar General, and $166,423.94 from Big Lots and Dollar General jointly and severally. (DE 1110 at 2-3).\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Big Lots and Dollar General argue that Winn-Dixie is not the prevailing party and thus not entitled to costs. Even if Winn-Dixie is the prevailing party; Defendants ask that I use my discretion and not award costs. Finally, if costs are awarded, they object to certain costs sought.\
A. Prevailing Party. This case has a long and complicated history that I will not repeat here, except as necessary. Despite Winn-Dixie's limited success in this case, I previously awarded costs to Winn-Dixie because I found Winn-Dixie to be the prevailing party based on injunctions entered against 7 Big Lots stores, 1 Dollar Tree store, and 2 Dollar General stores. (DE 714, 745). After cross appeals, the Eleventh Circuit reversed my decision as it related to the definition of groceries and aisle space, and remanded the matter. The Eleventh Circuit also vacated my prior order awarding costs in light of the remand. On remand, I expanded the definition of aisle space and groceries (for certain store locations), entered injunctions against 6 Big Lots stores, 15 Dollar Tree store, and no Dollar General stores. Winn-Dixie and Dollar Tree cross appealed. Dollar Tree and Winn-Dixie then settled this matter between them, and Winn-Dixie withdrew its pending Motion to Tax Costs as it relates to Dollar Tree.\
Dollar General contends that no costs should be awarded against it because Winn-Dixie received no relief [*3] against it on remand. After I entered injunctions against certain Dollar General stores originally, Dollar General closed those stores. The voluntary closure of those stores, likely in response to my prior injunctions, does not eliminate the fact that Winn-Dixie received relief in this action against Dollar General. That relief, although not everything sought by Winn-Dixie, materially altered the legal relationship of the parties and was not technical or de minimus. See Texas State Teachers Association v. Garland Independent School District, 489 U.S. 782 , 792-93 , 109 S. Ct. 1486 , 103 L. Ed. 2d 866 (1989). For reasons stated in my prior orders (DE 714, 745), I find that Winn-Dixie prevailed in obtaining injunctive relief against Dollar General, as well as Big Lots. Thus, Winn-Dixie is entitled to costs as allowed under 28 U.S.C. \'a7\'a7 1821 and 1920 .\
B. Costs of Settling Defendant. Winn-Dixie seeks $166,423.94 in costs from Dollar General and Big Lots jointly and severally. Despite settling with Dollar Tree and withdrawing its Motion to Tax Costs as against Dollar Tree, Winn-Dixie seeks the same amount of joint costs. In other words, had Dollar Tree not settled with Winn-Dixie, the joint costs would be divided among three Defendants, not two. Thus, by settling with Dollar Tree, Winn-Dixie seeks to shift Dollar Tree's portion of joint costs to Dollar General and Big Lots. If I were to shift Dollar Tree's share of the joint costs to Winn-Dixie, the settlement between Dollar Tree and Winn-Dixie would unfairly prejudice Dollar General and Big Lots. See In re Air Crash Disaster at John F. Kennedy Int'l Airport, 687 F.2d 626 (2d Cir. 1982). Accordingly, after I determine the reasonable and necessary joint costs, I will reduce the joint costs by one-third, representing Dollar Tree's portion.\
C. Reasonable and Necessary Costs. Dollar General and Big Lots argue that, if I award costs to Winn-Dixie, I should deny certain costs because they are not allowed under the statutes, or are not reasonable or necessary. I address Defendants' objections below.\
(1) Filing and Service Fees. Defendants do not object to the award of the filing fee and service of process fees sought. (DE 674 at 9). Accordingly, I award the following for filing fees and service of process for the complaints:\
\pard\pardeftab720\li539\ri539\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Dollar General - $375.00 ($350.00 for filing fee of complaint and $25.00 for service of process)\
Big Lots - $405.00 ($350.00 for filing fee of complaint and $55.00 for service of process)\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 (2) Transcription Costs. Winn-Dixie seeks the following costs for transcription: Dollar General-$8,079.22, Big Lots-$4,779.48, and Joint-$,002.06. Defendants object to many of the costs sought for the preparation of transcripts as not reasonable or necessary. (DE 674 at 9-13). After reviewing the transcription costs sought and the invoices for those transcriptions, I deduct costs for rough drafts of transcripts, expedited transcripts, ASCII disks, litigation support disks, and shipping because Winn-Dixie has not demonstrated that these costs were necessary and not merely incurred for the convenience of counsel.2 I also deduct the cost of video taping Patricia Pacey's deposition ($90.00) as her testimony was excluded [*4] and never used either at trial or the Daubert hearing.3 As demonstrated in the exhibit attached to this order, I reduce the costs sought for deposition transcripts attributed to Dollar General by $2,776.73 and to Big Lots by $1,592.93. (Ex. A to this Order). I award the costs for all trial transcripts, except for closing arguments, because Winn-Dixie demonstrated a need to have the transcripts to prepare proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law after the bench trial. However, I do not award costs for the transcript of closing arguments ($329.64) because that hearing was held months after the trial concluded and after proposed findings and conclusions were submitted to the Court.4 Winn-Dixie has not demonstrated any need for a transcript of a January 23, 2012 hearing ($667.50), the February 29, 2012 Daubert hearing ($714.00), or the April 24, 2012 status conference ($480.60), and thus no costs are awarded for those transcripts. Accordingly, I award Winn-Dixie the costs for transcriptions below:\
\pard\pardeftab720\li539\ri539\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Dollar General - $5.302.49\
Big Lots - $3.186.55\
Joint - $1.810.32\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 (3) Witness Fees and Costs. Winn-Dixie seeks the following witness fees and travel costs: Dollar General-$1,683.20, Big Lots-$281.40, Joint-$7,070.45. objects to witness fees in excess of the $40 a day allowed by statute ( 28 U.S.C. \'a7 1821(b) ), as well as fees for serving witnesses summonses in excess of the $55 an hour allowable service fee.5 Accordingly, I have reduce the costs sought for witness fees and costs attributed to Dollar General by $1,508.20, to Big Lots by $101.40, and to all Defendants by $1,620.00. (Ex. B to this Order). Defendants also object to the travel fees incurred by Dr. Pacey, particularly her flight cost. However, I find that the cost is reasonable because it reflects a last-minute fare, which was the result of my last-minute request to have Dr. Pacey attend a hearing. Accordingly, the following costs for witness fees and travel costs are awarded to Winn-Dixie:\
\pard\pardeftab720\li539\ri539\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 1. Dollar General - $175.00\
2. Big Lots - $180.00\
3. Joint - $5,450.45\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 (4) Printing and Copy Costs. Defendants object to the costs for printing and copying. Having reviewed the costs for printing and copying sought by Winn-Dixie, I find those costs to be reasonable and necessary and award the following:\
\pard\pardeftab720\li539\ri539\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 1. Dollar General - $9,312.81\
2. Big Lots - $3,839.84\
3. Joint - $1203.07\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 (5) Electronic Discovery Costs Related to ESI. Winn-Dixie seeks $153,700.00 for electronic discovery services from all Defendants (DE 648-1 at 255-260). Defendants object to costs for electronic discovery.\
Winn-Dixie seeks fees for a vendor to gather and search its electronic data for document production. The vendor's invoices includes fees for consulting, project management, travel, collection, indexing data, and culling the data by search.6 Winn-Dixie contends these costs are recoverable under  \'a7 1920(4) , which provides "[f]ees for exemplification and the costs of making copies of any materials where the copies are necessarily obtained for use in the case."\
The entirety of the work performed by the vendor in this case is not the electronic equivalent of "making copies." It appears the vendor gathered electronic documents from custodians, indexed [*5] the documents, and searched those documents in an effort to reduce attorney time spent reviewing documents for production if these documents were not in electronic format, this work would likely be performed by paralegals and attorneys, and would not be described as "making copies." Although several courts find that the initial copy of an electronic file may be recoverable, Winn-Dixie has not separated the tasks performed by the vendor into different costs to allow the Court to properly evaluate whether any of the services are the electronic equivalent of making copies. See, e.g., Country Vitner of North Carolina, LLC v. E. & J Gallo Winery, Inc., 718 F.3d 249 , 260 (4th Cir. 2013) ("converting electronic files to non-editable formats, and burning the files onto discs" are considered "making copies" under 1920(4) ). Although using vendors for such services saves attorney time and resources, it is not recoverable under \'a7 1920(4) . I, therefore, do not award any of the $153,700.00 sought by Winn-Dixie.\
The only costs sought by Winn-Dixie that appear to be recoverable would be the cost of making electronic copies, i.e., preparing a disc or other data storage device of the electronic documents for production.7 Winn-Dixie seeks $642.41 each from Dollar General and Big Lots for "Tiff Processing with Metadata extraction, electronic bates & confidential labeling . . . ." (DE 648-1 at 230, 250). It appears that these costs were for making a copy of the documents for production and thus they are recoverable under \'a7 1920(4) . Therefore, I award Winn-Dixie costs of $642.41 from Dollar General and $642.41 from Big Lots.\
Finally, under the category of electronic discovery, Winn-Dixie seeks $9,534.79 from Dollar General, $8,356.92 from Big Lots, and $448.36 from all Defendants for printing and assembly, color imaging, and color prints. These appear to be general copying costs and do not appear to be related to electronic discovery. The order dates on the invoices suggest the copies were made in relation to motions in limine. Without more information as to why the color copies or prints were made, I cannot determine whether these were necessary under \'a7 1920(4) .8 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li539\ri539\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 1. Dollar General - $642.41\
2. Big Lots - $642.41\
3. Joint - $0\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 (6) Total. Winn-Dixie is awarded costs of $l 5,807.71 from Dollar General individually, and $4,803.80 from Big Lots individually. The joint costs for all Defendants is $8,463.84. Reducing that number by one third to represent Dollar Tree's share, Winn-Dixie is also awarded $5,642.56 from Dollar General and Big Lots jointly and severally (or $2,821.28 each).\
Accordingly, it is\
ORDERED AND ADJUDGED that Winn-Dixie's Motion to Tax Costs (DE 1110) is GRANTED IN PART AND DENIED IN PART. Winn-Dixie is awarded costs in the amount of $18,628.99 from Dollar General and $7,625.08 from Big Lots.\
DONE AND ORDERED at Chambers in West Palm Beach, Florida, this 8 day of March, 2016.\
/s/ Donald M. Middlebrooks\
DONALD M. MIDDLEBROOKS\
UNITED STATES DISTRICT JUDGE\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 EXHIBIT A \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 WD's Exhibit\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Reduction\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Number\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Description\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Amount\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Reason\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 8\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Dr. Pacey deposition\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 30.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 ASCII/E-Transcript/\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Min-U-Script\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 transcript\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 162.50\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Rough Draft\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 28.66\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 FedEx\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 9\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Dr. Pacey Volume II\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 30.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 ASCII/E-[*6] Transcript/\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Min-U-Script\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 26.05\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 FedEx\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 12\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Video of Dr. Pacey\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 90.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 video\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 deposition\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 13\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Cook deposition\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 5.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 ASCII Disk\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 transcript\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 5.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 condensed transcript\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 5.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 e-transcript\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 27.60\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 shipping\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 14\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Laliberte\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 desposition\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 15.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 litigation support disk\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 transcript\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 335.75\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 overnight expedite\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 15\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Thorpe deposition\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 15.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 litigation support disk\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 transcript\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 280.50\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 overnight expedite\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 20.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 shipping\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 18\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Retamar deposition\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 155.25\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 rough ASCII\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 transcript\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 45.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 compressed/ASCII/word index\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 50.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 overnight shipping\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 19\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 McNamara/Rhee\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 deposition\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 transcripts\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 402.75\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 rough ASCII\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 90.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 compressed/ASCII/word index\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 50.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 overnight shipping\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 20\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Sloan deposition\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 347.75\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 daily delivery\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 transcript\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 45.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 compressed/ASCII/word index\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 50.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 overnight shipping\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Reduction to Costs \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Sought for Dollar \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 2,776.73 \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 General's Deposition \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Transcripts \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 45\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Jason deposition\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 20.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 shipping\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 transcript\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 35.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 E-cd litigation package\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 47\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Anderson deposition\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 125.02\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 overnight expedite\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 transcript\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Day deposition\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 223.72\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 overnight expedite\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 transcript\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 63.25\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 rough draft\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Halley deposition\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 118.44\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 overnight expedite\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 transcript\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 32.20\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 rough draft\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 8.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 shipping\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 48\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Powers deposition\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 466.60\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 reduced by half because\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 expedited\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 transcript\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 49\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Acayan/Deuser\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 180.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 rough ASCII\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 deposition\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 transcripts\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 90.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 compressed/ASCII/Word Index\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 50.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 shipping\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 50\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Retamar/Fryman\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 deposition\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 90.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 compressed/ASCII/Word Index\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 transcripts\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 90.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 shipping\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Reduction to Costs \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Sought for Big \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 1,592.23 \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Lots' Deposition \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Transcripts \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 EXHIBIT B \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 WD's\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Exhibit Number\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Description\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Reduction Amount\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Reason\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 58\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Cook witness\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fee for deposition\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 31.20\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $40 only allowed\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 59\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Raffa witness\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fee for deposition\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 1,235.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $40 only allowed\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 60\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Cook witness fee\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 242.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $40 only allowed for\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 for trial and trial\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 witness fee and $55\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 subpoena service\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 for service\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Reduction to \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Costs Sought for \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Dollar General's \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Witness Fees \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 1,508.20 \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $40 only allowed for\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 71\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Jason witness fee\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 101.40\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 witness fee and $55\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 for trial and trial\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 for service\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 subpoena service\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Reduction to Costs \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Sought for Big \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Lots' Witness Fees \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 101.40 \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 74\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Collado witness fee\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $40 only allowed\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 for trial - two days\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 927.50\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 per day\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 75\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 McHugh witness fee\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 for trial\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 187.50\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $40 only allowed\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 76\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Parke witness fee\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 for trial\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 155.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $40 only allowed\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 77\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Walker witness fee\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 for trial\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 350.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $40 only allowed\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Reduction to Costs \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Sought for Joint \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Witness Fees \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 1,620.00 \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0  \uc0\u8232 \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 1\
Winn-Dixie relies on its prior Motion to Tax Costs, filed on September 12, 2012 (DE 648), and its Reply in support of its prior Motion (DE 679). Dollar General and Big Lots also rely on their prior Response in opposition to the prior Motion to Tax Costs filed October 1, 2012. (DE 674).\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 2\
See, e.g., Robinson v. Alutiq-Mele, LLC, 643 F. Supp. 2d 1342 , 1354 (S.D. Fla. 2009) (denying costs for CD copy of deposition and CD-ROM/mini transcript of deposition); University of Miami v. Intuitive Surgical Inc., No. 04-20409, 2007 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 18836 , 2007 WL 78 1912, # 1 (S.D. Fla. March 13, 2007) (denying costs for shipping transcripts because only for convenience of counsel); Eggleston v. Bradshaws No. 02-80555, 2007 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 44015 , 2007 WL 1760912 , at *4 (S.D. Fla. June 18, 2007) (denying costs for mini-transcripts and ASCII disks).\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 3\
See, e.g., Woods v. Deangelo Marine Exhaust, Inc. No. 08-81579, 2010 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 110293 , 2010 WL 4116571 , at *4 (S.D. Fla. Sept. 27, 2010) (denying costs for videotaped deposition because movant failed to explain why both transcribed and videotaped copies were necessary); Perfect Web Techs., Inc. v. Infousa, Inc., No. 07-80286, [2009 WL 2407689], 2009 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 67533 , 2009 WL 2407689 , *9 (S.D. Fla. Aug. 4, 2009) (denying costs for videotaped depositions because movant failed to explain why both transcribed and videotaped copies of deposition were necessary).\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 4\
Defendants object to expedited trial transcripts. Winn-Dixie has, however, demonstrated a need for the trial transcripts in preparing proposed findings and conclusion, and a need for the transcripts on an expedited basis, as I required proposed findings and conclusions to be filed 28 days after the trial. See, e.g., Maris Distrib. Co. v. Anheuser-Busch, Inc., 302 F.3d 1207 , 1225 (11th Cir. 2002) (explaining that although costs of daily transcript should not be awarded "as a matter of course," costs of daily transcript may be awarded if the court deems the daily transcript necessary).\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 5\
"Fees for private process servers may be taxed under section 1920(1) so long as they do not exceed the fees authorized by section 1921 ." Beach-Mathura v. American Airlines, Inc., 571 F. App'x 810 , 812 (11th Cir. 2014). At the time of service of process of the complaints and trial subpoenas in this case, the taxable rate for service of process was $55 per hour. See 28 C.F.R. \'a7 0.114 (a)(3) (2009).\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 6\
There are three invoices for these services. The first is for $75,000 for "Forensic Computer Onsite Collection: All Inclusive." (DE 648-1 at 256). The invoice is not itemized for services performed but simply lists that it includes consulting, travel cost, onsite forensic collection, remlox remote collection, project management, and indexing of data. ( Id.). The second is for $50,000 for "Forensic Computer Onsite Collection Server" and again simply lists consulting, onsite forensic collection, remlox remote collection, project management, indexing of data, and data processing for review. ( Id. at 258). The third invoice is for "Forensics Culling (Searching and Culling)" for $2,800; "Onsite Collection Server (Remaining Balance)" for $11,500; and "Remote Collection Workstation (Addl Custodians)" for $14,400. ( Id. at 260).\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 7\
The Third Circuit has held that "scanning and conversion of native files to the agreed-upon format for production of ESI constitute 'making copies of materials."' Race Tires America, Inc. v. Hoosier Racing Tire Corp., 674 F.3d 158 , 166 (3d Cir. 2012). See also CBT Flint Partners, LLC v. Return Path, Inc., 737 F.3d 1320 , 1332 (Fed. Cir. 2013) ("the costs of copying responsive documents to production media are recoverable under section 1920(4) ").\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 8\
"Failure to itemize copies necessarily obtained for use in the case and those made for the mere convenience of counsel may result in denial of copying costs." Cappeletti Bros., Inc. v. Broward County, 754 F. Supp. 197 , 198 (S.D. Fla. 1991).\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb566\sa1133\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0          
\f0\fs42 General Information\

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 Judge(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 DONALD M. MIDDLEBROOKS\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Related Docket(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 9:11-cv-80601 (S.D. Fla.); 9:11-cv-80638 (S.D. Fla.); 9:11-cv-80641 (S.D. Fla.);\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Topic(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Civil Procedure\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Date Filed\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 2016-03-08 00:00:00\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Parties\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 WINN-DIXIE STORES, INC,; WINN-DIXIE STORES LEASING, LLC; WINN-DIXIE RALEIGH, INC.; WINN-DIXIE RALEIGH LEASING, LLC; WINN-DIXIE MONTGOMERY, LLC; and WINN-DIXIE MONTGOMERY LEASING, LLC, Plaintiffs, v. DOLLAR TREE STORES, INC., a Virginia corporation, Defendant.; WINN-DIXIE STORES, INC.; WINN-DIXIE STORES LEASING, LLC; WINN-DIXIE RALEIGH, INC.; WINN-DIXIE RALEIGH LEASING, LLC; WINN-DIXIE MONTGOMERY, LLC; and WINN-DIXIE MONTGOMERY LEASING, LLC, Plaintiffs, v. BIG LOTS STORES, INC., an Ohio corporation, Defendant/Third-party Plaintiff,; WINN-DIXIE STORES, INC.; WINN-DIXIE STORES LEASING, LLC; WINN-DIXIE RALEIGH, INC.; WINN-DIXIE RALEIGH LEASING, LLC; WINN-DIXIE MONTGOMERY, LLC; and WINN-DIXIE MONTGOMERY LEASING, LLC, Plaintiffs, v. DOLGENCORP, LLC, f/k/a DOLGENCORP, INC., a Kentucky corporation, Defendant/Third Party Plaintiff,\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Court\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 United States District Court for the Southern District of Florida\cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\li674\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\fs20 \cf0 Pagination \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 *
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 BL
\f1\fs24 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\li674\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 United States District Court, M.D. Florida \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 KENNETH DOIG, Plaintiff, v. CAROLYN W. COLVIN, Acting Commissioner of Social Security, Defendant. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 CASE NO. 8:13-CV-1209-T-17AEP. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 September 10, 2014. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
ORDER 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\
Elizabeth A. Kovachevich, District Judge 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\
This cause is before the Court on: 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\fs20 \cf0 Dkt. 20 Report and Recommendation DM. 21 Objections Dkt. 25 Response to Objections \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf0 In the Complaint, Plaintiff Kenneth James Doig seeks review of the denial of Plaintiff's claim for disability insurance benefits. The assigned Magistrate Judge has entered a Report and Recommendation in which it is recommended that the decision of the Commissioner to deny Plaintiffs claim be affirmed, as the decision is based on substantial evidence and employed proper legal standards, and the Appeals Council properly denied review of the ALJ's decision. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Plaintiff's alleged onset date is August 31, 2010. Plaintiff meets the insured status requirements of the Social Security Act through December 31, 2014. The ALJ rendered the decision on February 17, 2012. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The Court has independently reviewed the pleadings and the record. Plaintiff Doig has filed Objections to the Report and Recommendation, and Defendant has filed a Response to Plaintiff's Objections. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 I. Standard of Review 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 A. Report and Recommendation 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The District Court reviews de novo the portions of the Report and Recommendation or specified proposed findings to which an objection is made. The District Court may accept, reject, or modify in whole or in part the report and recommendation of a magistrate judge, or may receive further evidence, or may recommit the matter to the Magistrate Judge with instructions. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 B. Social Security Claim 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 This Court's role in reviewing claims brought under the Social Security Act is a narrow one. The scope of its review is limited to determining: (1) whether there is substantial evidence in the record as a whole to support the findings of the Commissioner, and (2) whether the correct legal standards were applied. Richardson v. Perales, 402 U.S. 389, 390, 401, 91 S.Ct. 1420, 28 L.Ed.2d 842 (1971); Lamb v. Bowen, 847 F.2d 698, 701 (11thCir. 1988). The Court may not decide facts, reweigh evidence, or substitute its judgment for that of the Commissioner. See Bloodsworth v. Heckler, 703 F.2d 1233, 1239 (11th Cir. 1983). However, this limited scope does not render affirmance automatic, for "despite [this] deferential standard for review of claims . . . [the] Court must scrutinize [the] record in its entirety to determine reasonableness of the decision reached." Bridges v.Bowen, 815 F.2d 622 (11th Cir. 1987); Lamb. 847 F.2d at 701. Moreover, failure to apply the correct legal standards is grounds for reversal. Bowenv. Heckler, 748 F.2d 629, 634 (11th Cir. 1984). 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 With respect to the sequential analysis, the burden rests with the claimant through the first four steps of the analysis, and shifts to the Commissioner at step five. See Audler v. Astrue, 501 F.3d 446, 448 (5th Cir. 2007). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 C. Remand 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Section 405(g) permits a district court to remand an application for benefits to the Commissioner . . .by two methods, which are commonly denominated 'sentence four remands' and 'sentence six remands. . . ."' Ingram v. Commissioner, 496 F.3d 1253, 1261 (11th Cir. 2007). A sentence four remand is appropriate when "[*2] evidence properly presented to the Appeals Council has been considered by the Commissioner and is part of the administrative record."  id. at 1269. When a claimant submits new evidence to the Appeals Council, a reviewing court must consider the entire record, including the evidence submitted to the Appeals Council, to determine whether the denial of benefits was erroneous.  id. at 1262. A sentence six remand is appropriate when the district court learns of evidence not in existence or available to the claimant at the time of the administrative proceeding that might have changed the outcome of that proceeding.  id. at 1267. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 II. Discussion 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Plaintiff Doig has asserted Objections to the Report and Recommendation: 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 1. The Magistrate Judge and the ALJ picked and chose evidence which supported their decisions but disregarded other contrary evidence; 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 2. The Magistrate Judge and the ALJ mischaracterized and paraphrased evidence; 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 3. The Magistrate Judge and the ALJ penalized Plaintiff because of his ability to perform limited daily activities; 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 4. The Magistrate Judge erred by determining that Dr. Swain's medical records are not chronologically relevant; 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 5. The Magistrate Judge erred by determining the Appeals Council appropriately determined Dr. Swain's medical records are not material to warrant remand back to the ALJ. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The Social Security Administration has established a five-step sequential evaluation process for determining whether an individual is disabled. 20 CFR 4504.1520(a). The steps are followed in order. If it is determined that the claimant is or is not disabled at a step in the evaluation process, the evaluation will not go on to the next step. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 At Step Two of the evaluation process, Plaintiff Doig had the mild burden of showing that Plaintiff has an impairment which has more than a minimal impact on Plaintiff's ability to perform basic work activities. See Flvnn v.Heckler, 768 F.2d 1273 (11th Cir. 1985). In this case, at Step Two, the ALJ determined that Plaintiff Doig has the following severe impairments: degenerative disc disease and arthritis. At Step Three, the ALJ determined that Plaintiff does not have an impairment or combination of impairments that meets or medically equals the severity of one of the listed impairments in 20 CFR Part 404, Subpart P, Appendix 1. After considering the entire record, the ALJ found that Plaintiff Doig has the residual functional capacity ("RFC") to perform light work as defined in 20 CFR 404.1567(b) except that Plaintiff: can sit for 4 hours, can occasionally climb stairs; can frequently bend; can never crawl or climb ladders, ropes, or scaffolds; must avoid concentrated exposure to vibration, extreme changes in temperature, and fumes, odors, gases, etc., and is limited to unskilled work and low stress jobs, i.e. no assembly lines or production quotas jobs. At Step Four, the ALJ determined that Plaintiff Doig is not able to perform past relevant work as an automobile detailer, construction worker, bartender, waiter and house repairer. At Step Five, after considering Plaintiff Doig's residual functional capacity, age, education [*3] and work experience, and based on the testimony of the VE, the ALJ determined that there are jobs that exist in significant numbers in the national economy that Plaintiff Doig can perform. Therefore, the ALJ determined that Plaintiff Doig has not been under a disability from August 31, 2010 to the date of the decision, February 17, 2012. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 A. Magistrate Judge and ALJ picked and chose evidence which supported their decisions but disregarded contrary evidence 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Plaintiff argues that the Magistrate Judge focused on the examinations of September 2010 and January, 2011, in which Plaintiff appears to be in no acute distress and demonstrated a normal range of motion, strength and tone throughout Plaintiff's musculoskeletal system, but ignored the examinations of March 28, 2011 and June 30, 2011, which revealed pain with range of motion in the back. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Plaintiff argues that the ALJ discussed the September 1, 2010 CT, the January 19, 2011 examination, the November 9, 2011 examination, and the December 7, 2011 examination, but ignored the examinations of March 28, 2011 and June 30, 2011, which revealed pain with range of motion in the back, and ignored the MRI of November 16, 2011, which revealed intervertebral disc dessication at L2/3 and facet joint arthropathy at L2/3, L3/4, L4/5 and L5/S1. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Plaintiff argues that the evidence which was ignored would have provided a contrary decision, and an immediate reversal of the decision is mandated for further consideration. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Defendant responds that the regulations require the ALJ to consider the entirety of the evidence in determining whether a claimant is disabled, but the ALJ is not required to specifically address every statement or finding in the record, provided the ALJ's decision is sufficient to enable the Court to conclude that the ALJ properly considered the claimant's condition as a whole. See Dver v. Barnhart, 395 F.3d 1206, 1211(11th Cir. 2005). 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 The Court notes that the ALJ discusses Dr. Kroll's examination of January 19, 2011, in which Dr. Kroll noted normal range of motion, strength and tone, except for "mild" decrease in lumbar spine flexion and extension due to pain, and further stated "Subsequent clinical findings remained the same," for which Dr. Kroll prescribed Vicodin and Flexeril. (Dkt. 16-2, p. 59). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The Court also notes that the Magistrate Judge states that "Plaintiff again followed up with Dr. Kroll in March, 2011 for medication refills and again complained of pain with range of motion in the back. . . . Dr. Kroll assessed Plaintiff with chronic low back pain and prescribed refills for Plaintiffs medication." "Following that, in June, 2011, Plaintiff returned to Dr. Kroll and continued to report of pain with range of motion in the back. . . The treatment note reveals that Plaintiff never attended pain management and continued to be noncompliant with his treatment regimen. . . . Notwithstanding, Plaintiff received refills of his medications but no other treatment regimen was ordered or suggested at that time." (Dkt. 20, p. 8). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 In determining Plaintiff's RFC, the ALJ considered all of Plaintiff's symptoms, and the extent to which [*4] the symptoms could reasonably be accepted as consistent with the objective medical evidence and other evidence, and also considered opinion evidence. The ALJ made a credibility determination, applying the "pain standard." This required the ALJ to resolve conflicts in the evidence. The ALJ determined that Plaintiff's complaint of constant severe pain was partially credible. The ALJ restricted Plaintiff to the light exertional level, and, based on Plaintiff's history of a back injury and some residual pain, imposed further limitations: "can sit for 4 hours; can occasionally climb stairs; can frequently bend; can never crawl or climb ladders, ropes or scaffolds; must avoid concentrated exposure to vibration, extreme changes in temperature, and fumes, odors, gases, etc; and is limited to unskilled work and low stress jobs, i.e. no assembly lines or production quotas jobs." While the ALJ must consider the record as a whole, the ALJ is not required to discuss every piece of evidence. The ALJ did not ignore contrary evidence in his opinion; the ALJ was required to weigh conflicting evidence when making a finding as to Plaintiff's credibility, and did so. The Magistrate Judge did not ignore contrary evidence in the Report and Recommendation. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 After consideration, the Court overrules Plaintiffs Objection as to this issue. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 B. Magistrate Judge and ALJ mischaracterized and paraphrased evidence 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Plaintiff argues that the Magistrate Judge misstated evidence as to the November 2011 appointment and December 2011 appointment with Dr. Kroll, by misstating objective findings as subjective complaints, and stating that Dr. Kroll noted that Plaintiff was in no acute distress, when the record of December 2011 does not mention this. Plaintiff further argues that the Magistrate Judge mischaracterized Plaintiff's treatment as "conservative." Plaintiff argues that the Magistrate Judge does not clarify how the prescription of narcotic pain medication constitutes "conservative treatment." 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Plaintiff argues that the ALJ mischaracterizes evidence when stating "the allegations of severely limiting pain are not substantiated by the clinical findings, which are mostly normal. Plaintiff argues that the ALJ ignored the examinations of March 28, 2011 and June 2011 which revealed pain with range of motion in back, and the MRI of November 16, 2011, which revealed intervertebral disc dessication and facet joint arthropathy, as noted above. Plaintiff further argues that the evidence from September 2010 through December 2011 is split in terms of exams which reveal a normal range of motion and those which reveal a restricted range of motion due to pain. Plaintiff further argues that, over the course of 8 visits in a year, Plaintiff displayed restricted range of motion due to pain on two occasions, received narcotic pain medications on eight occasions, and had an MRI which revealed disc dessication and facet joint arthropathy; Plaintiff argues that the ALJ's decision is devoid of any explanation of how he determined that Plaintiffs [*5] clinical findings were "mostly normal." 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 1. Objective/Subjective 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The Court notes that Plaintiff saw Dr. Kroll on November 9, 2011 "for follow up on his back pain." (Dkt. 16-7, p. 116). Under "Subjective" "ROS" (review of systems), Dr. Kroll states "Positive for back pain" as to Plaintiff's Musculoskeletal system. Plaintiff returned for a one month follow up and medication refills on December 7, 2011. On that day, under "Subjective" ROS, as to Plaintiff's Musculoskeletal system, Dr. Kroll's record states "negative for arthralgias, back pain, and myalgias"; under "Objective," upon physical examination, in general, Dr. Kroll states Plaintiff was "well developed and nourished; appropriately groomed; in noapparent distress." Upon examination of Plaintiff's Musculoskeletal system, Dr. Kroll states "pain with range of motion in the back." Dr. Kroll's plan states: "PT WITH GOOD CONTROL OF PAIN WILL RENEW MEDS." (Dkt. 16-7, p. 111). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 2. Conservative Treatment 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The meaning of "conservative treatment" is well known; it includes any mode of treatment which is short of surgery. Treatment with medication, whether prescribed or over-the-counter, and steroid injections is still conservative treatment, i.e. not surgery. The ALJ noted Plaintiff's injury in October 2008, the MRI showing no acute injury, no significant stenosis and no significant impingement; "the claimant was noted to have only minimally bulging discs and was treated conservatively for his back pain." (Dkt. 16-2, p. 58). After the alleged onset date, the treatment rendered by Plaintiff's treating physician does not include a record of surgery, or any opinion that surgery is indicated. Plaintiff's treating physician prescribed medications to treat moderate to severe pain, and continued to refill the prescriptions; Dr. Kroll's records reflect that the medication controlled Plaintiff's pain. When prescribed medication effectively relieves pain, the pain does not limit a plaintiff's ability to perform work demands. A course of conservative treatment tends to negate a claim of disabling pain. Wolfe v. Chater, 86 F.3d 1072, 1078 (11th Cir. 1996). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 3. Clinical Findings 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The MRI of 10/21/2008 revealed mild facet hypertrophy at L2/3, L3/4 and L4/5 (DM. 16-7, p. 75); the MRI of 11/16/2011 acknowledges the presence of facet arthropathy at L2/3, L3/4, L4/5, and L5/S1, but states "There has been no significant interval change since the previous examination." (Dkt. 16-7, p. 128). The MRI of 11/16/2011 states that disc dessication at L2/3 has developed since the previous examination, but "No disc herniation or bulge was identified. There is no evidence of central canal, lateral recess or neural foraminal stenosis." 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The ALJ found that Plaintiff has medically determinable impairments which could reasonably be expected to cause the alleged symptoms; therefore the ALJ was required to evaluate the intensity, persistence and limiting effects of Plaintiff's symptoms to determine the extent to which the symptoms limit the Plaintiff's functioning. Whenever statements about the intensity, persistence, or functionally limiting effects of pain or other symptoms are not substantiated by [*6] objective medical evidence, the ALJ must make a finding on the credibility of the statements based on consideration of the entire case record. In the context of the ALJ's credibility determination, the assigned Magistrate Judge summarizes Plaintiff's treatment with Dr. Kroll (Dkt. 20, pp. 6-10), and then finds: 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 As the foregoing illustrates, neither the objective evidence or the medical opinions support Plaintiff's subjective complaints of disabling back pain. As the ALJ noted, though Plaintiff continued to complain of disabling back pain subsequent to the alleged disability onset date, Plaintiff received only conservative treatment, Dr. Kroll stated that Plaintiffs pain was under "good control" despite reports of Plaintiffs non-compliance, objective testing yielded mostly normal or benign results, and Plaintiff continued to engage in numerous daily activities, including taking care of his children. . . . As such, substantial evidence supported the ALJ's credibility finding and the ALJ's decision should thus be affirmed." 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The ALJ noted a decrease in lumbar spine flexion and extension due to pain In January, 2011, but no neurological deficits, and subjective pain with range of motion in December, 2011. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 As to the omission of any reference to 2011 MRI results, the ALJ is not required to refer to every piece of evidence in his decision; a reasonable inference based on the 2011 MRI results is that, in spite of the presence of disc dessication, where there is no interval change (change in height), no disc herniation, and no stenosis, there has been no great deterioration in Plaintiffs condition. Where a treating physician prescribes narcotic pain medication, the Court infers that the patient for whom it is prescribed is suffering pain, but the purpose of pain medication is to relieve pain. Where such medication is prescribed on an onoing basis, and the treating physician notes "good pain control", the Court can infer that the patient's pain was relieved by the medication. Where a patient's treating physician requires a patient to undergo tests or refers the patient to a pain management specialist, but the patient does not attend the necessary appointments, delaying treatment, an adverse inference can be drawn from the failure to follow prescribed treatment; one possible inference is that the patient's condition which requires treatment is not as severe as the patient complains that it is. Finally, the Court understands "mostly normal" in terms of consideration of the medical evidence as a whole; there were more occasions in which there was no restriction of range of motion due to pain than there were occasions where this sign was present. 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 After consideration, the Court overrules Plaintiffs objection as to the above issues. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 C. Magistrate Judge and ALJ penalized Plaintiff because of his ability to perform limited daily activities 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Plaintiff argues that the Magistrate Judge and the ALJ erred by penalizing Plaintiff because of his ability to perform limited daily activities. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Plaintiff argues that Magistrate Judge [*7] and the ALJ selected certain discrete admissions in noting that Plaintiff engages in a number of activities, including caring for children. Plaintiff argues that this statement is taken out of context, and both Plaintiff and Plaintiff's fiancee testified that Plaintiff is significantly limited in his ability to perform activities. Plaintiff argues that the statement "Plaintiff is engaged in a number of activities" is technically correct, but does not give an accurate and complete picture of how Plaintiff performs the activities. Plaintiff argues that neither the Magistrate Judge nor the ALJ address testimony of Plaintiff's fiancee that Plaintiff prepares dinner and picks up the children because Plaintiffs fiance works many hours, and Plaintiff and Plaintiffs fiance stress that Plaintiff forces himself to do these things because Plaintiffs fiance financially supports the household. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Plaintiff argues that both the Magistrate Judge and ALJ ignored the testimony that activities Plaintiff performs are significantly affected by Plaintiff's pain. Plaintiff argues that the ALJ has selectively disregarded or ignored relevant testimony, such as Plaintiffs testimony at the hearing of the resulting pain from doing household chores and taking care of children. Plaintiff argues that both the Magistrate Judge and ALJ do not acknowledge that Plaintiff has to take care of his children, so the fact that Plaintiff forces himself to do so should not be used to penalize him. Plaintiff argues that Plaintiffs allegations regarding his daily activities are taken completely out of context. 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 The Government responds that, while the ability to engage in daily living activities does not disqualify a claimant from receiving disability benefits, the Commissioner may properly consider a claimant's daily activities, among other evidence. See, 20 CFR Sec. 404.1529(c)(3)(i); Maikutv. CommT of Soc. Sec., 394 Fed. Appx. 660, 663 (11th Cir. 2010). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 It is the role of the ALJ to resolve conflicts in the evidence and to make a credibility determination. When statements about the intensity, persistence or functionally limiting effects of pain or other symptoms are not substantiated by objective medical evidence, the ALJ is required to make a credibility determination based on the entire case record; however, the ALJ is not required to address every piece of evidence. In this case, the ALJ determined Plaintiff's statements about the intensity, persistence and limiting effects of pain to be partially credible, to the extent consistent with the ALJ's modified light RFC. The ALJ's consideration of Plaintiff's activities, including caring for children, was only one factor that the ALJ considered, among others. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 After consideration, the Court overrules Plaintiffs objection as to this issue. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 D. Magistrate Judge erred by determining that Dr. Swain's medical records are not chronologically relevant 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The ALJ rendered his decision on February 17, 2012. Dr. Swain's medical records were for a period from May 30, 2012 to July 26, 2012 in support of Plaintiffs request for review. [*8] 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Plaintiff argues that the Magistrate Judge erred in determining that Dr. Swain's records are not chronologically relevant. See Watkins v. Astrue, 925 F.Supp.2d 1257, 1263 (N.D. Ala. 2012) (citing Boyd v. Heckler, 704 F.2d 1207, 1211 (11th Cir. 1983)). Plaintiff argues that Plaintiff's symptoms, due to their nature and severity, could bear on his condition during the relevant period between August 2010 and February 17, 2012, and Plaintiff was sent to Dr. Swain based on his underlying condition which manifested itself during the relevant period. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The Government relies on arguments previously made in the Commissioner's Memorandum, and in the Report and Recommendation (Dkt. 19, pp. 7-11; Dkt. 20, pp. 11-13). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Dr. Swain's records (Dkt. 16-2, pp. 9-37) show that Plaintiff was referred to Dr. Swain on 5/30/2012 by his primary care physician, Dr. Roose, for pain management. Plaintiff reported his pain control to be inadequate. On examination, Dr. Swain noted diffuse tenderness of Plaintiff's spine, muscle spasm and stiffness in Plaintiff's range of motion. Plaintiff refused toe/heel walk due to pain. Dr. Swain also noted no major deficits of coordination or sensation, no deep tendon reflex deficit, and diminished sensation bilaterally at L4/5. Dr. Swain's diagnosis was lumbosacral spondylosis, lumbosacral radiculitis NOS, and lumbar disc herniation with cord compression. Dr. Swain's goal was to improve pain control, and to improve Plaintiffs activities of daily living. Dr. Swain prescribed Morphine XR, 15 mg, and Flexeril 10 mg. Dr. Swain advised a facet nerve block, bilateral, L3/4/5, followed by lumbar ESI x3 (epidural steroid injections). Plaintiff returned to Dr. Swain on 6/28/2012, at which time Plaintiff reported adequate pain control with present medication and treatment, and reported improvement in daily activities and sleep. At that time, Plaintiff reported his pain as moderate, 5/10. Plaintiff saw Dr. Swain for the facet nerve block on 7/12/2012; Dr. Swain states: 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Procedure Notes:
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 INDICATIONS: Patient sas failed conservative treatment He/she c/o increased pain not adequately controlled with medications. Pain affects daily activities and work both physically and psychologically. Examination shows increased tenderness and restriction of ROM. Extension of the spine increases pain. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Plaintiff reported a 50% decrease in pain immediately after the facet nerve block procedure. Plaintiff returned to Dr. Swain on 7/26/2012, reporting inadequate pain control, difficulty in activities of daily living and sleep. At that time, Plaintiff reported his pain as "moderate." Dr. Swain refilled prescriptions and scheduled the lumbar ESI. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Dr. Swain's records state his clinical findings on examination some months after the hearing and decision of the ALJ, and his recommendations for treatment at that time; Dr. Swain obtained Plaintiff's past medical records for review in conjunction with Dr. Swain's treatment. Dr. Swain prescribed medication and rendered treatment that controlled Plaintiff's pain level and Plaintiff reported improvement in his activities of daily living. Dr. Swain does not express any opinion about [*9] the nature and severity of Plaintiff's impairment at any time prior to the time Dr. Swain treated Plaintiff. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 New evidence is "chronologically relevant" if it relates to the period on or before the ALJ's decision. That Plaintiff complained of increased pain not controlled by medication some months after the ALJ's decision does not establish that the increased pain, or a worsening underlying condition causing additional functional impairment, was present before that time. The record of Dr. Swain's treatment is not a retrospective diagnosis of Plaintiff's impairments that relates back to the period of time addressed by the ALJ. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 After consideration, the Court overrules Plaintiff's objection as to this issue. 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 E. Magistrate Judge erred by determining that the Appeals Counsel appropriately determined Dr. Swain's medical records are not material to warrant remand back to the ALJ 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 As to the submission of new evidence, Plaintiff argues that the proper inquiry is whether there is a reasonable possibility the new evidence would change the administrative outcome. Culver v. Astrue, 924 F.Supp.2d 1295, 1302 (N.D. Ala. 2013). Plaintiff argues that the ALJ primarily considered the medical records from Dr. Kroll, a general practitioner; the records before the Appeals Council were from Dr. Shyam Swain, Interventional Pain Specialist/Anesthesiologist, Master General Surgeon, Diplomat American Board of Pain Medicine, Diplomat American Board of Anesthesiology, for a pain consultation. Plaintiff argues that the opinions of specialist on issues within their areas of expertise are generally entitled to more weight than the opinions of non-specialists. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Plaintiff further argues that referral to a Pain Management doctor typically indicates an underlying disease or that conservative treatment has failed. Plaintiff further argues that Dr. Swain identified other objective medical evidence which was not presented before the ALJ. The May 30, 2012 examination reveals diffuse tenderness to the back and spine; joint inspection-palpation reveals stiffness; muscle tone illustrates muscle spasms and range of motion shows stiffness. Examinations of June 28, 2012 and July 26, 2012 reveal the same. Plaintiff argues that these objective examinations would have provided the ALJ with a more informed and complete picture of Plaintiff's limitations. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Plaintiff further argues that: 1) Plaintiff was prescribed more aggressive medication for pain by Dr. Swain than by Dr. Kroll; Dr. Swain prescribed Morphine Extended Release, 15 mg and 30 mg; 2) Plaintiff was prescribed Facet Blocks and Lumbar Epidural Steroid injections, a different treatment than provided by Dr. Kroll; 3) Dr. Swain's findings on examination are consistent with the reports before the ALJ regarding the range of motion with pain, and may have changed the ALJ's decision; 4) Dr. Swain determined that Plaintiff's increased pain was not adequately with medications and that Plaintiff has failed conservative treatment; 5) after reviewing Plaintiffs X-Ray, MRI, CT Scan and medical records, the same records [*10] before the ALJ, Dr. Swain made the determination of failed treatment, such that the new evidence would have provided a basis for the ALJ to determine that Plaintiff's pain was severely disabling. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Plaintiff argues that the Magistrate Judge erred in characterizing the medical evidence as not differing significantly from the record before the ALJ, and since the new evidence would have provided a reasonable possibility of changing the ALJ's mind, this case should have been remanded to the ALJ. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 In the Report and Recommendation, the assigned Magistrate Judge found that the new evidence would not render the denial of benefits erroneous or present a reasonable possibility that the administrative outcome would change, and is therefore not material. After review of Dr. Swain's treatment notes, the Magistrate Judge found that Plaintiffs complaints of back pain continued but did not rise to the level of disabling; Plaintiff admitted that the medication controlled the pain, and the facet injection led to a 50% improvement in the pain. Plaintiff continued to complain of back pain, but demonstrated only some stiffness, muscle spasms and mild sensitivity upon examination; other testing was not performed due to Plaintiff's purported pain. The Magistrate Judge concluded that these findings do not differ significantly from those considered by the ALJ in rendering his decision, or demonstrate that Plaintiff's back pain warrants a finding of disabled. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The Appeals Council ("AC") "must consider new, material and chronologically relevant evidence and must review the case if the administrative law judge's action, findings, or conclusion is contrary to the weight of the evidence currently of record. Ingram v. Commissioner ofSoc. Sec. Admin, 496 F.3d 1253, 1261 (11th Cir. 2007). 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 In this case, the Appeals Council acknowledged that it will review a case when the AC receives new and material evidence and the decision of the ALJ is contrary to the weight of all the evidence now in the record. The AC further states that the AC considered the reasons Plaintiff disagrees with the decision in the material listed on the enclosed Order of Appeals Council. The AC found the information does not provide a basis for changing the ALJ's decision; the AC also looked at the medical records of Dr. Shyam Swain, M.D. dated May 30, 2012 through July 30, 2012, stated the ALJ decided Plaintiffs case on February 17, 2012, and states "This new information is about a later time. Therefore, it does not affect the decision about whether [Plaintiff] was disabled on or before February 17, 2012." 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 When a claimant submits new evidence to the AC, a reviewing court must consider the entire record, including the evidence submitted to the AC, to determine whether the denial of benefits was erroneous. A sentence four remand is appropriate when "evidence properly presented to the Appeals Council has been considered by the Commissioner and is part of the administrative record." Ingram. 496 F.3d at 1269. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 To remand under sentence four, the district court must either find the Commissioner's decision is not supported by [*11] substantial evidence, or that the Commissioner incorrectly applied the law relevant to the disability claim. Where the district court cannot discern the basis for the Commissioner's decision, a sentence-four remand may be appropriate to allow the Commissioner to explain the basis for his decision. Johnson v. Barnhart, 268 F.Supp.2d 1317, 1321 (M.D. Fla. 2002Mcitina Jackson v. Chater, 99 F.3d 1086, 1089-92, 1095, 1098 (11th Cir. 1996)). After a sentence four remand, the district court enters a final and appealable judgment immediately, and then loses jurisdiction. id.
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The Court notes that Dr. Swain prescribed pain medication, performed a facet nerve block, and prescribed epidural steroidal injections. Plaintiff was previously treated with pain medication, physical therapy and epidural steroidal injections. None of Plaintiff's treating physicians recommended surgery. Plaintiff reported that his pain improved with the change of medication and the facet nerve block. In his records, Dr. Swain does not express any functional limitations greater than those in the ALJ's RFC determination. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The Court finds that the Appeals Council was not in error in denying review, where the Appeals Council considered the new evidence offered by Plaintiff but determined that the new information did not provide a basis for changing the ALJ's decision. The Court further finds that the assigned Magistrate Judge was not in error in finding that the new evidence would not render the denial of benefits erroneous, or present a reasonable possibility that the administrative outcome would change, and was therefore not material. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 After consideration, the Court overrules Plaintiff's objection as to this issue. Accordingly, it is 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 ORDERED that Plaintiffs Objections are overruled, and the Report and Recommendation is adopted and incorporated. The decision of the Commissioner denying benefits is affirmed, and the Appeals Council properly denied review of the decision of the ALJ. The Clerk of Court shall enter a final judgment in favor of Defendant Carolyn W. Colvin, Acting Commissioner of Social Security, and close this case. 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 DONE and ORDERED. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb566\sa1133\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0          
\f0\fs42 General Information\

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 Judge(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 ELIZABETH ANNE KOVACHEVICH\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Related Docket(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 8:13-cv-01209 (M.D. Fla.);\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Topic(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Administrative Law; Evidence; Social Security\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Industries\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Disability Insurance\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Date Filed\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 2014-09-10 00:00:00\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Parties\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 KENNETH DOIG, Plaintiff, v. CAROLYN W. COLVIN, Acting Commissioner of Social Security, Defendant.\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Case Type\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 SO\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Court\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 United States District Court for the Middle District of Florida\cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\li674\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\fs20 \cf0 Pagination \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 *
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 BL
\f1\fs24 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\li674\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 United States District Court, M.D. Florida \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 WAYNE R. GRAY Plaintiff, v. NOVELL, INC., THE SCO GROUP, INC., and X/OPEN LIMITED Defendants. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 CASE No. 8:06-CV-1950-T-33TGW \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 September 6, 2012. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
ORDER
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\
Thomas G. Wilson, Magistrate Judge 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\
THIS CAUSE came on for consideration upon defendant X/Open's Bill of Costs (Doc. 166) and the plaintiffs Opposition to Bill of Costs of Defendant X/Open Company Limited (Doc. 178). The defendant seeks $15,007.35 in costs under Rule 54(d)(1), F.R.Civ.P., as the prevailing party in this case (Doc. 166). The plaintiff objects to reimbursement of all of these costs except for a $20.00 fee charged by the Clerk (Doc. 178, p. 2). For the following reasons, the defendant will be awarded $5,016.82 in costs to be taxed against the plaintiff. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 I. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Under Rule 54(d)(1), F.R.Civ.P, costs "should be allowed to the prevailing party." Thus, there is a presumption in favor of awarding costs to the prevailing party. Arcadian Fertilizer T P v. MPW Indus. Services. Inc.. 249 F.3d 1293, 1296 (11th Cir. 2001). On the other hand, the Supreme Court has emphasized that Rule 54(d) does not permit "unrestrained discretion to tax costs to reimburse a winning litigant for every expense [it] has seen fit to incur in the conduct of his case." Farmer v. Arabian Am. Oil Co.. 379 U.S. 227, 235 (1964). Rather, costs awarded under this rule are limited to the list of items set forth in 28 U.S.C. 1920 and related statutes. CrawfordFitting Ca v. J.T. Gibbons. Inc.. 482 U.S. 437, 445 (1987). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 It is, moreover, the movant's obligation to adequately describe and substantiate the requested costs. Cf. Norman v. Housing Authority of City of Montgomery, 836 F.2d 1292, 1303 (11th Cir. 1988). Similarly, the opponent has an obligation to document with specificity his objections. Cf. American Civil Liberties Union of Georgia v. Barnes 168 F.3d 423, 428 (11th Cir. 1999) (objections and proof from fee opponents should be specific and reasonably precise). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 II. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Defendant X/Open seeks reimbursement of $14,987.35 for "[f]ees for exemplification and the costs of making copies of any materials... necessarily obtained for use in the case" and a $20.00 fee of the Clerk (Doc. 166). The defendant has included an itemization of its costs and invoices substantiating these expenses (id., pp. 4-64). The plaintiff objects to reimbursement for all photocopying and exemplification fees on the ground that the photocopies were not necessarily obtained for use in this case (Doc. 178, p. 2). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Initially, it is noted that the defendant had filed a Motion to Strike the plaintiffs Opposition to X/Open's Bill of Costs as untimely (see Doc. 182). However, at the hearing on the matter, plaintiffs counsel argued he believed that an unopposed extension of time to respond to X/Open's Motion for Attorneys' Fees and Costs, which was granted by the court, also applied to objections to the Bill of Costs (see Doc. 182-2, p. 2; Doc. 189). Since the circumstances surrounding this issue are unclear, it would be unfair to deny the plaintiff an opportunity to object to the bill of costs. Consequently, the defendant was granted leave to file a reply to the plaintiffs opposition (Docs. 189, 190). Specifically, it was given 20 days after [*2] resolution of the plaintiffs appeal to file a reply memorandum to the plaintiffs opposition to the Bill of Costs (Doc. 190). The defendant, however, did not file a reply memorandum. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Pursuant to \'a7 1920(4), photocopying "necessarily obtained for use in the case" is compensable. In making this determination, "the court should consider whether the prevailing party could have reasonably believed that it was necessary to copy the papers at issue." United States Equal Employment Opportunity Commission v. W & O. Inc. 211 F 1H 6nn 691 (11 * Cir. 2000). For example, the Eleventh Circuit has stated that "copies attributable to discovery" provided to the opposing party are a category of copies recoverable under \'a7 1920(4). Id. On the other hand, photocopying costs "merely incurred for convenience, to aid in thorough preparation, or for purposes of investigation only" are not recoverable. See id. at 620-21; see also Ballestero v. Fairfield Resort, inc., 2008 WL 5111100 at *2 (M.D. FIa.)("charges for extra copies and for documents prepared for convenience, preparation, research, or for the records of counsel are not taxable"). The burden of establishing entitlement to photocopying expenses lies with the prevailing party. See Desisto college, inc. v. Town of How-in-the-hills, 718 F.Supp. 906, 910 n.l (M.D. Fla. 1989), affd, 914 F.2d 267 (11th Cir. 1990). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The plaintiff argues that the defendant's conversion and printing of documents that he produced during discovery in an electronic format is a "convenience cost" and is therefore not compensable (Doc. 178, pp. 6-7). The printing of electronically stored information can be characterized as a convenience. See Ballestero v. Fairfield Resort* Tnr supra. 2008 WL 5111100at *2-*3. In this case, the defendant does not explain why the conversion and printing of all of the plaintiffs electronically produced discover)' was necessary, although it was given an opportunity to reply to this argument. Therefore, the defendant failed to show that the conversion and photocopying expenses related to the plaintiffs electronic discovery were necessary for use in the case. See Coleman v. Roadway Fxpiras 158 F.Supp.2d 1304, 1310(M.D. Ala. 2001 quoting Fulton Federal Sav.& loan v. American Ins. Co., 143 F.R.D. 292, 300 (N.D. Ga. 1991)) (when the party "fails to respond to the objections to a bill of costs by coming forward with evidence showing ... how they were used or intended for use in the case, the court may disallow costs"). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The plaintiff also argues that color photocopies of documents is a non-recoverable convenience cost (Doc. 178, p. 8). Color photocopies are compensable under \'a7 1920(4) if they are necessarily obtained for use in the case. See Arcadian Fertilizer. LP v. MPW Indus. Services. inc.,249 F.3d 1293, 1296-97 (11th Cir. 2001) (color photographs used at trial are a compensable cost). However, the plaintiff argues that, in this case, the defendant did not file color copies with the court, and there has been no contention that color documents were necessary to any issue in the lawsuit (Doc. 178, p. 9). Since the defendant did not file a reply to this argument, the court does not know the reason for the color copying [*3] and, therefore, the defendant has failed to show that color photocopying expenses were necessary in this case. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 On the other hand, the plaintiff has failed to itemize, with record citations, the sums spent on these objectionable categories of photocopying costs.[fn*] It is the plaintiffs burden to identify his objections with specificity. Cf. American Civil Liberties union of Georgia v. Barnes, supra. 168 F.3d at 428. The plaintiff attempts to avoid this burdensome task by arguing that X/Open's entire exemplification fee of $14,987.35 was for "printing, copying and converting Mr. Gray's electronic discovery production" (Doc. 178, p. 7). However, that is inaccurate. For example, a brief review of the invoices shows that X/Open also incurred costs in producing documents for the plaintiff (see, e.g., Doc. 166, p. 36), which are compensable. See United States Equal Employment Opportunity Commissionv. W&O. Inc.. supra . 213 F.3d at 623 ("copies attributable to discovery" provided to the opposing party are a category of copies recoverable under \'a7 1920(4)). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The court will not comb through every invoice to determine the non-compensable costs. That, as indicated, was the plaintiffs burden, which he failed to satisfy. On the other hand, there are several entries on the invoices noticed by the court that are not compensable. Those sums will be deducted from the amount of costs due. They are: 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \'95 $7,115.39 for "working copy of all documents produced by X/Open and Gray" (Doc. 166, p. 42). The term "working copy" indicates it was for the convenience of counsel, and not necessary for use in the case, as that term is defined in the caselaw. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \'95 $1,141.00 for color scanning (id., p. 47). As indicated, the defendant failed to meet its burden to show that color copying was necessary to the case. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \'95 $1,734.14 for imaging and blowbacks of the plaintiffs production documents (id., pp. 16-17). As indicated, the defendant failed to show that the conversion and photocopies of the plaintiffs electronically produced discovery was necessary for the case. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 After reducing these non-recoverable costs totaling $9,990.53, defendant X/Open is entitled to recover costs under \'a7 1920 in the amount of $5,016.82. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 It is, therefore, upon consideration, 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 ORDERED: 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 That the taxation of the Bill of Costs by the Clerk (Doc. 167) is hereby AMENDED to the extent that costs are hereby taxed against the plaintiff in the amount of $5,016.82 pursuant to Rule 54(d)(1), F.R.Civ.P. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn*] For example, the plaintiff argues that the defendant spent more than $7,000 on color photocopies (Doc. 178, pp. 8,9). However, the plaintiff provided no record citation in support of this contention, and the court did not identify $7,000 in color photocopying expenses. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb566\sa1133\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0          
\f0\fs42 General Information\

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 Judge(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Thomas G. Wilson\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Related Docket(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 8:06-cv-01950 (M.D. Fla.);\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Topic(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Civil Procedure\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Date Filed\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 2012-09-06 00:00:00\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Parties\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 WAYNE R. GRAY Plaintiff, v. NOVELL, INC., THE SCO GROUP, INC., and X/OPEN LIMITED Defendants.\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Case Type\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 SO\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Court\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 United States District Court for the Middle District of Florida\cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\li674\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\fs20 \cf0 Pagination \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 *
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 BL
\f1\fs24 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\li674\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 United States District Court, M.D. Florida \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 IN RE: ENGLE CASESRudy v. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., et al., Narushka v. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., et al., Smith v. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., et al., Wilder v. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., et al., \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Case No. 3:09-cv-10000-J-32JBT, 3:09-cv-11071-J-32JBT, 3:09-cv-10190-J-32JBT, 3:09-cv-10048-J-32JBT, 3:09-cv-10109-J-32JBT \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 October 5, 2012. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
ORDER 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\
Timothy J. Corrigan, District Judge 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\
This cause is before the Court on Defendants' Motion to Dismiss Plaintiffs' Claims for Punitive Damages ("Motion to Dismiss") (Doc. 789), filed on September 26, 2012; Plaintiffs' Opposition to Defendants' Motion to Dismiss Plaintiffs' Claims for Punitive Damages (Doc. 794), filed on October 2, 2012; and Defendants' Motion for Leave to File a Reply in Support of Defendants' Motion to Dismiss Plaintiffs' Claims for Punitive Damages ("Motion for Leave to File A Reply") (Doc. 795), filed on October 3, 2012. For the reasons stated herein, both motions are due to be denied. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 I. Procedural History
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 In these Engle progeny cases, plaintiffs seek punitive damages in connection with each count of their complaints (strict liability, civil conspiracy to fraudulently conceal, fraudulent concealment, and negligence/gross negligence).[fn1] At issue here are Plaintiffs' claims for punitive damages in connection with their non-intentional tort claims: strict liability and negligence.[fn2]
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 On December 20, 2011, ruling on motions from the first wave of cases,[fn3]Judge Dalton denied the defendants' motion for summary judgment on the plaintiffs' claims for punitive damages, but found the complaints in that wave of cases "marginally, at best, sufficiently [pled] entitlement to punitive damages."[fn4] (Doc. 426 at 3.) He then advised the plaintiffs in these cases "to request leave to amend their complaints to more adequately plead entitlement to punitive damages for non-intentional tort claims." ( Id. at 5-6.) Almost seven months later, and after filing second amended complaints, on July 7, 2012, Plaintiffs' requested leave to amend their complaints to correct that pleading deficiency. (Doc. 688.) On August 24, 2012, the undersigned denied Defendants' motion for summary judgment on plaintiffs' punitive damages claims,[fn5] but also denied Plaintiffs' motion to amend their complaints, as proposed. (Doc. 759 at 4-5.) The amended complaints as proposed were deficient in at least three ways: (1) they attempted to plead entitlement to punitive damages as a separate count; (2) they were impermissible shotgun pleadings; and (3) they failed to tie the alleged tortious conduct to the individual smoker and otherwise take appropriate care in drafting the amended complaints. ( Id. at 5.) On September 21, 2012, Plaintiffs filed amended complaints attempting to correct these deficiencies.[fn6] On September 26, 2012, Defendants moved to dismiss Plaintiffs' claims for punitive damages on the non-intentional tort claims (strict liability and negligence). (Doc. 789.) Trial in the Smith case is set to begin in four days on October 9, 2012. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 II. Applicable Standard
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 "A pleading that states a claim for relief must contain ... a short and plain [*2] statement of the claim showing that the pleader is entitled to relief." Fed.R.Civ.P. 8(a)(2). The Federal Rules of Civil Procedure do not require "detailed factual allegations"; however, a "pleading that offers labels and conclusions or a formulaic recitation of the elements of a cause of action will not do." Ashcroft v. Iqbal, 556 U.S. 662, 678 (2009) (quoting Bell Atl. Corp. v. Twombly, 550 U.S. 544, 555 (2007)). "To survive a motion to dismiss, a complaint must contain sufficient factual matter, accepted astrue, to 'state a claim to relief that is plausible on its face.'" Id.(quoting Twombly, 550 U.S. at 570) (emphasis added). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 With regard to this Motion, the Court must limit its "consideration to the well-pleaded factual allegations, documents central to or referenced in the complaint, and matters judicially noticed." La Grasta v. First Union Sec.,Inc., 358 F.3d 840, 845 (11th Cir. 2004) (internal citations omitted). The alleged facts in the complaint must be accepted as true and be construed in the light most favorable to the non-movant. Castro v. Sec'y of HomelandSec., 472 F.3d 1334, 1336 (11th Cir. 2006) (quoting Hill v. White, 321 F.3d 1334, 1335 (11th Cir. 2003)). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 III. Discussion
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Defendants contend that Plaintiffs have done nothing to correct the deficiencies in their amended complaints. (Doc. 789 at 1.) Consequently, Defendants maintain it is "impossible for Defendants (or the Court) to determine the alleged basis for punitive damages on any specific claim." ( Id. at 2.) They argue that these legal deficiencies, as well as Plaintiffs' "repeated failure to comply with the Court's directives, warrant the dismissal of their punitive damages claims." ( Id.) 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Plaintiffs contend that (1) the amended complaints sufficiently allege facts regarding Defendants' gross misconduct, and its effect on the individual smokers; (2) they have complied with the Court's August 24, 2012 Order; (3) Defendants are on notice of the facts supporting these claims; and (4) Defendants' argument contradicts past Engle rulings and Florida law. (Doc. 794.) 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Although the amended complaints incorporate by reference large portions of preceding allegations for each cause of action, the Court finds that Plaintiffs have complied with the Court's directive by incorporating only those facts they believe support each count and the accompanying punitive damages claim. In addition, Plaintiff have also connected their claims for punitive damages with each count, rather than alleging punitive damages as a separate count. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Putting aside those two arguments then, the remaining issue is whether the amended complaints provide Defendants with notice of the alleged conduct underlying the claims for punitive damages. "A defendant may be held liable for punitive damages only if the trier of fact, based on clear and convincing evidence, finds that the defendant was personally guilty of intentional misconduct or gross negligence." Fla. Stat. \'a7 768.72(2). Under Florida law, "a plaintiff must plead specific acts committed by a defendant" to allege entitlement to punitive damages. Porterv. Ogden, Newell & Welch, 241 F.3d 1334, 1341 (11th Cir. 2001). "Merely setting forth conclusory allegations in the complaint is insufficient to entitle a claimant to recover punitive [*3] damages." Id. Thus, in connection with their non-intentional tort claims, Plaintiffs must allege facts that would show that Defendants conduct amounted to intentional misconduct or gross negligence. See Fla. Stat. \'a7 768.72(2)(a)-(b).[fn7]
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Plaintiffs have set forth "sufficient factual matter," in connection with their strict liability and negligence claims, which if accepted as true, as the Court must, states a claim for punitive damages that is "plausible on its face." See Ashcroft, 556 U.S. at 678. In other words, the allegations, if proven, could show that Defendants' alleged misconduct was intentional or was so reckless that it constituted a "conscious disregard or indifference to the life, safety, or rights of persons exposed to such conduct." See Fla. Stat. \'a7 768.72(2)(a)-(b). For example, the amended complaints allege facts regarding the addictive nature of nicotine, Defendants' knowledge regarding nicotine, and their actions to ensure that cigarettes contained sufficient amounts of nicotine to keep the smoker addicted. (See, e.g., Compl. at \'b6\'b6 12-13, 31, 49-51.) At the same time, Defendants allegedly knew the serious health risks of smoking. (See, e.g., id. at \'b6\'b6 13, 19, 25.) In addition, assuming the smoker smoked filtered and/or low-tar or light cigarettes, the allegations regarding Defendants' actions with respect to filters, tar levels, and cigarette design, allege facts that, if proven, could show that Defendants acted with the requisite mental state. (See, e.g., id. at \'b6\'b6 28-73, 82-95, 97-100.) Moreover, the complaints allege that each smoker was addicted to cigarettes containing nicotine, that such addiction caused the decedent's smoking-related disease and death, and that such injuries and death were caused by Defendants' conduct. (See, e.g., Compl. \'b6\'b6 8, 114, 128.) 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The sufficiency of the evidence of Defendants' conduct with respect to each individual smoker, which appears to be what Defendants' dispute, is a different question. Whether there is sufficient evidence to tie Defendants' alleged conduct with the decedent's injury and death, is at this point, either a question for the jury or the trial judge. These factual determinations cannot be made from the face of the complaints, to which this Court's consideration is constrained. However, Defendants are not precluded from objecting at trial to evidence that has no relevance to the particular plaintiff's case or from questioning the sufficiency of evidence supporting punitive damages in a particular case. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Finally, as this Court previously recognized, Defendants are familiar with the facts Plaintiffs allege, and the evidence they introduce at trial, to support their punitive damages claims. In Re: Engle Cases, No. 3:09-cv-10000-J-32JBT, Doc. 426 at 3 (M.D. Fla. Dec. 20, 2011) (Dalton, J.) As Judge Dalton explained: 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [I]n light of the long litigation history, together with the unique facts and circumstances of these cases, granting summary judgment based on a pleading deficiency would do injustice. The Defendants are undeniably familiar with the facts Plaintiffs allege entitle them to punitive damages. They are on notice regarding Plaintiffs' experts' testimony because [*4] the experts have been deposed in each case. Thus, there would be no surprise and no prejudice to Defendants if Plaintiffs' claims for punitive damages for non-intentional torts proceed. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Id. Discovery is closed in these cases, Defendants have filed answers, dispositive motions are over with, pretrial statements have been filed, and trials are set. Defendants are well aware of what the evidence is in these cases. Here too, there will be no surprise and no prejudice to Defendants by allowing Plaintiffs' claims for punitive damages to go forward. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Accordingly, it is hereby 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 ORDERED:
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 1. Defendants' Motion to Dismiss Plaintiffs' Claims for Punitive Damages (Doc. 789) is DENIED. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 2. Defendants' Motion for Leave to File a Reply in Support of Defendants' Motion to Dismiss Plaintiffs' Claims for Punitive Damages (Doc. 795) is DENIED. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 DONE AND ORDERED.
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn1] As each amended complaint is virtually identical, the Court cites the Smith Third Amended Complaint ("Compl."). (Smith, Doc. 140.) 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn2] Defendants conceded that "[f]or fraud-based claims, a properly framed and supported allegation of fraud may constitute a sufficient predicate for punitive damages" and only argued in their Motion for Summary Judgment on Each Plaintiff's Claims for Punitive Damages that "each Plaintiff has failed to adequately plead the predicates for punitive liability on his or her negligence [and] strict liability ... claims." (See Doc. 644-1 at 14 (emphasis added).) 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn3] The instant cases are part of the second wave of activated cases. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn4] Defendants' motion for summary judgment argued that "each Plaintiff ha[d] failed to adequately plead the predicates for punitive liability on his or her negligence [and] strict liability ... claims." (Doc. 367 at 14.) 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn5] This motion was identical to the previous motion denied by Judge Dalton. (See Doc. 644.) 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn6] The Court initially directed only the plaintiff in Rudy v. R.J.Reynolds Tobacco Company, 3:09-cv-10490-J-32JBT, to file an amended complaint. (Doc. 759 at 4-5.) However, the parties subsequently resolved that case, and three others. The Court then directed the remaining second wave plaintiffs to filed amended complaints "that conform to the Court's August 24, 2012 Order." (Doc. 785 at 3.) 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn7] Section 768.72(2) of the Florida Statutes provides: 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 (2) A defendant may be held liable for punitive damages only if the trier of fact, based on clear and convincing evidence, finds that the defendant was personally guilty of intentional misconduct or gross negligence. As used in this section, the term: 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 (a) "Intentional misconduct" means actual knowledge of the wrongfulness of the conduct and the high probability that injury or damage to the claimant would result and, despite that knowledge, intentionally pursued that course of conduct, resulting in injury or damage. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 (b) "Gross negligence" means that the defendant's conduct was so reckless or wanting in care that it constituted a conscious disregard or indifference to the life, safety, or rights of persons exposed to such conduct. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Fla. Stat. 768.72(2)(a)-(b). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb566\sa1133\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0          
\f0\fs42 General Information\

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 Judge(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Timothy J. Corrigan\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Related Docket(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 3:09-cv-10000 (M.D. Fla.); 3:09-cv-10190 (M.D. Fla.); 3:09-cv-11071 (M.D. Fla.); 3:09-cv-10048 (M.D. Fla.); 3:09-cv-10109 (M.D. Fla.);\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Topic(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Torts\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Date Filed\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 2012-10-05 00:00:00\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Parties\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 IN RE: ENGLE CASESRudy v. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., et al., Narushka v. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., et al., Smith v. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., et al., Wilder v. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., et al.,\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Case Type\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 SO\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Court\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 United States District Court for the Middle District of Florida\cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\li674\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\fs20 \cf0 Pagination \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 *
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 BL
\f1\fs24 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\li674\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Majority Opinion > 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0  \uc0\u8232 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 DANIEL S. ECHOLS and LORI ELLEN ECHOLS, Plaintiffs, v. RJ REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO. individually and as successor by merger to Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corporation (a/k/a Brown & Williamson USA, Inc.) and the American Tobacco Company (f/k/a The American Tobacco Company, Inc.), PHILIP MORRIS U.S.A. INC., and LORILLARD TOBACCO COMPANY, Defendants. 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0  \uc0\u8232 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 CASE NO. 2:13-CV-14215-ROSENBERG/LYNCH \
October 15, 2014, Filed October 15, 2014, Decided \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 For Daniel S. Echols, Plaintiff: Donald Nathaniel Watson, Lorenzo Williams, LEAD ATTORNEYS, Gary Williams Finney Lewis Watson & Sperando PL, Stuart, FL; Arnold S. Gaines, Gary Williams Lewis et al, Stuart, FL.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 For Lori Ellen Echols, Plaintiff: Lorenzo Williams, LEAD ATTORNEY, Gary Williams Finney Lewis Watson & Sperando PL, Stuart, FL.\
For R.J Reynolds Tobacco Company, indivdually and as successor by merger to Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corporation (a/k/a Brown & Williamson USA, Inc.), Individually and as successor by merger to the American Tobacco Company, (f/k/a The American Tobacco Company, Inc.), a foreign corp., Defendant: John Phillip Wiederhold, LEAD ATTORNEY, Wiederhold, Moses, Kummerlen & Waronicki, P.A., West Palm Beach, FL; Frank Cruz-Alvarez, Shook Hardy & Bacon, Miami, FL; John Fachet Yarber, Jones Day, Atlanta, GA.\
For Phillip Morris U.S.A. Inc., Defendant: Frank Cruz-Alvarez, Shook Hardy & Bacon, Miami, FL.\
For Lorillard Tobacco Company, Defendant: Tina Marie Schaefer, LEAD ATTORNEY, Hughes Hubbard & Reed, LLP, Kansas City, MO; Brendan Thomas Franzoni, Hughes Hubbard and Reed, Kansas City, MO; Frank Cruz-Alvarez, Shook Hardy & Bacon, Miami, FL.
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 ROBIN L. ROSENBERG, UNITED STATES DISTRICT JUDGE.
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 ROBIN L. ROSENBERG \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 ORDER GRANTING DEFENDANTS' MOTION TO DISMISS
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 This matter is before the Court upon the Defendants' Motion to Dismiss the Third Amended Complaint [DE 70]. The Motion has been fully briefed by both sides. The Court has reviewed the documents in the case file and is fully advised in the premises. For the reasons set forth below, Defendants' Motion is granted.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 I. BACKGROUND 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 The Plaintiffs are Daniel S. Echols and his wife, Lori Ellen Echols. The Plaintiffs' Third Amended Complaint [DE 67] alleges that Daniel Echols, born on December 16, 1951, began smoking cigarettes at the age of 9 in 1960. DE 67 \'b6 10. He continued smoking until 2010 (50 years) despite multiple attempts to stop smoking. Id. The Complaint further alleges that Mr. Echols "was hooked on the cigarettes and could not quit," though he tried "several times over the years." Id. \'b6 12. He "smoked 20 - 30 cigarettes a day, 140 - 210 a week." Id. As to the particular brands he smoked, the Complaint alleges that the Plaintiff smoked Marlboro (Defendant Philip Morris), Winston Lights (Defendant RJ Reynolds), Newport and Kent (Defendant Lorillard), and Doral (Defendant RJ Reynolds). Id. \'b6 13.\
These cigarettes which Mr. Echols smoked contained nicotine, an addictive substance "designed, manufactured, advertised and marketed by Defendants." Id. \'b6 14. Mr. Echols smoked these cigarettes "in sufficient quantities and for a sufficient time period to cause injury in the form of disease and physical illness," including bladder cancer. [*2] Id. \'b6\'b6 14-15. Mr. Echols first sought medical help for a symptom of this condition in April 2010. Id. \'b6 16.\
The Complaint makes numerous allegations as to the deceptive conduct of the Defendants, including allegations of an ongoing conspiracy "to hide the effect and severity of nicotine addiction in cigarettes and also of the carcinogens within the cigarettes that would and do cause serious illness and death." Id. \'b6 21. The Defendants' efforts included funding of an "advertising and disinformation campaign" intended to encourage individuals like Mr. Echols to continue to smoke. See id. The Defendants continued to promote smoking despite knowing the dangers associated with it as early as the mid-1950s. Id. \'b6\'b6 29, 36; see also id. \'b6\'b6 40-93 (discussing strategies employed by the cigarette companies to market, e.g., low-tar and filter cigarettes as "healthy" alternatives), \'b6\'b6 94-115 (discussing public health understanding of the risks of "low yield" cigarettes"), \'b6\'b6 116-19 (discussing marketing of cigarettes towards children and young adults in order to secure "replacement smokers").\
In light of the foregoing, the Plaintiffs have brought suit in federal court under 28 U.S.C. \'a7 1332 , alleging strict liability (Count I, id. \'b6\'b6 146-55), negligence/gross negligence (Count II, id. \'b6\'b6 156-60), fraud (Count III, id. \'b6\'b6 161-72), conspiracy to commit fraud (Count IV, id. \'b6\'b6 173-79), violation of the Florida Unfair and Deceptive Trade Act (Count V, id. \'b6\'b6 180-83), and loss of consortium (Count VI, id. \'b6\'b6184-86) against all Defendants. The Plaintiffs also request punitive damages on each count. Presently before the Court is Defendants' Motion to Dismiss the Third Amended Complaint [DE 70].\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 II. DISCUSSION 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 The Defendants argue that the Plaintiffs' Complaint should be dismissed for numerous reasons. The Court first addresses the Defendants' general arguments as to the specificity of the pleadings, then proceeds to analyze each count of the Complaint before concluding with a discussion of punitive damages.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 A. Specificity of the Pleadings 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 The Defendants argue that the Plaintiffs' Complaint should be dismissed for failure to state a claim under Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 12(b)(6) . DE 70 at 1. Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 8(a)(2) requires that any claim for relief contain "a short and plain statement of the claim showing that the pleader is entitled to relief." To comply with Rule 8(a)(2) , a complaint must be "plausible on its face." Bell Atl. Corp. v. Twombly, 550 U.S. 544 , 570 , 127 S. Ct. 1955 , 167 L. Ed. 2d 929 (2007). A claim is plausible on its face where the plaintiff has pled "factual content that allows the court to draw the reasonable inference that the defendant is liable for the misconduct alleged." Ashcroft v. Iqbal, 556 U.S. 662 , 678 , 129 S. Ct. 1937 , 173 L. Ed. 2d 868 (2009). A plaintiff's allegations must "give the defendant fair notice of what the . . . claim is and the grounds upon which it rests." Twombly, 550 U.S. at 555 (quoting Conley v. Gibson, 355 U.S. 41 , 47 , 78 S. Ct. 99 , 2 L. Ed. 2d 80 (1957)). A pleading that, in lieu of specific factual allegations, substitutes "labels and conclusions" or a "formulaic recitation of the elements of a cause of action is insufficient." Iqbal, 556 U.S. at 678 [*3] .\
The Plaintiffs' Complaint does not comply with the federal pleading standards outlined above. In 189 numbered paragraphs, it fails to identify with any specificity the years during which Mr. Echols smoked the Defendants' brands, making it impossible for the Defendants to properly respond to the Complaint. The Plaintiffs allege the following with respect to Mr. Echols's usage of the Defendants' various brands:\
\pard\pardeftab720\li539\ri539\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Plaintiff primarily smoked Marlboro, and did so for 15 years (a brand of cigarettes produced by Defendant, Philip Morris [sic]. He then primarily smoked Winston Lights for 35 years (a brand of cigarettes manufactured by defendant, RJ Reynolds [sic]. He also engaged in smoking menthol and filtered cigarettes such as Newport and Kent (products of Lorillard [sic], as well as Doral (a product of RJ Reynolds). Mr. Echols used at least 11 brands manufactured by RJ Reynolds, 3 by Philip Morris and 3 by Lorillard. The principal brands were these.\
DE 67 \'b6 13.\
\pard\pardeftab720\li539\ri539\sb243\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 The Plaintiff smoked Marlboro, Winston, Newport, Doral and other brands produced by the Defendants, establishing a clear nexus or relationship between the Defendants and the Plaintiff.\
Id. \'b6 150 (Count I).\
Relying to his detriment on these untrue and fraudulent representations [made from the 1960s through the 1990s], Daniel Echols smoked unfiltered Camel Cigarettes for several years and eventually switched to filtered Winston Cigarettes.\
Id. \'b6 167 (Count III).\
Relying to his detriment on these untrue and fraudulent representations [about the "safer" or "less potent" nature of light cigarettes made from the 1960s through the 1990s], Daniel Echols switched to Winston Light Cigarettes, which he smoked for approximately seventeen (17) years.\
Id. \'b6 169 (Count III)\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 These are the only statements within the Complaint that allege Mr. Echols's use of Defendants' products, and these allegations are insufficient to support a claim for relief. Plaintiffs do not allege the periods during which Mr. Echols smoked the named brands with any specificity.1 The Complaint initially states that Mr. Echols smoked for 50 years, and that within those 50 years he smoked Marlboro for 15 years and "then" Winston Lights for 35 years. Id. \'b6 13. (It is worth noting that later in the Complaint, the Plaintiffs allege that Mr. Echols smoked Winston Lights for 17 years, in direct contradiction of this statement. See id. \'b6\'b6 13, 169.) The Court could assume the Plaintiffs' use of the word "then" implies that he smoked Marlboro primarily from 1960 to 1975, then stopped smoking Marlboro and switched to Winston Lights from 1975 to 2010.2 That still leaves the question of when Mr. Echols smoked the Lorillard brands named in the Complaint (Newport and Kent), and when he smoked Doral and Camel cigarettes. See id. \'b6\'b6 13, 167. Were these brands only smoked during the 35-year period in which Mr. Echols smoked primarily Winston Lights, or were they smoked during the entirety of his 50-year smoking career?\
The other allegations in the Complaint are even less clear. Mr. Echols allegedly smoked Camel Cigarettes for "several years" during the 1960s and 1990s. [*4] See id. \'b6 167. Which years? The Complaint uses a similarly broad range when describing his switch to Winston Lights, stating that he switched in reliance on untrue/fraudulent representations about the "safer" or "less potent" nature of light cigarettes made during the 1960s and 1990s, and that he smoked Winston Lights for 17 years. See id. \'b6 169. When did he make the switch? How is this reconcilable with the Complaint's earlier statement that Mr. Echols smoked Winston Lights for 35 years? The Court is left with a number of questions.\
The Court does not expect the Plaintiffs to know, down to the day, which brands Mr. Echols smoked when. The Complaint must "give the defendant fair notice of what the . . . claim is and the grounds upon which it rests," however. Twombly, 550 U.S. at 555 (quoting Conley v. Gibson, 355 U.S. 41 , 47, 78 S. Ct. 99 , 2 L. Ed. 2d 80 (1957)). In light of the pleading standards outlined in Twomblyand Iqbal, for an amended complaint to comply with federal pleading standards, the Plaintiffs should state with more specificity the years during which Mr. Echols smoked the Defendants' brands. The Plaintiffs need not state the years during which Mr. Echols smoked each particular brand, but they must, at a bare minimum, state the years during which he smoked each Defendant's brands generally, or else the Defendants will be unable to properly respond to the Complaint.\
For these reasons, the Court grants the Defendants' Motion to Dismiss [DE 70]. The Plaintiffs' strict liability (Count I), negligence (Count II), fraud (Count III), conspiracy to commit fraud (Count IV), and loss of consortium (Count VI) claims are dismissed without prejudice, as are the Plaintiffs' requests for punitive damages. The Plaintiffs' Florida Unfair and Deceptive Trade Act claim (Count V) is dismissed with prejudice for the reasons stated below.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 B. The Individual Counts \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 The Plaintiffs' Complaint merits dismissal for the reasons discussed above. However, this Order also contains a discussion of each individual count below.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 i. Strict Liability (Count I) \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 The Defendants make three arguments as to the Plaintiffs' strict liability claim: first, failure to state a claim in compliance with federal pleading standards; second, failure to allege a specific defect in any cigarettes manufactured by the Defendants\'97and, consequently, preemption of the Plaintiffs' claims\'97and third, failure to allege how a specific defect in cigarettes manufactured by each Defendant was a proximate cause of Mr. Echols's injuries. See DE 70 at 3-5.\
To successfully state a claim for strict liability, the Plaintiffs must establish (1) the manufacturer's relationship to the product in question, (2) the defect and unreasonably dangerous condition of the product, and (3) the existence of the proximate causal connection between that condition and the user's injuries or damages. See West v. Caterpillar Tractor Co., Inc., 336 So. 2d 80 , 87 (Fla. 1976). As discussed supra, the Plaintiffs' Complaint founders on issues of proximate cause; it fails to allege with any specificity the periods during which Mr. Echols smoked each Defendant's cigarettes.[*5] 3 The Court thus dismisses the Plaintiffs' strict liability claim without prejudice.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 ii. Negligence (Count II) \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 The elements of a cause of action for negligence in a products liability case are: (1) the manufacturer must have a legal duty to design and manufacture a product reasonably safe for use; (2) the manufacturer must fail to comply with that duty; (3) the plaintiff must have an injury that is legally caused by the manufacturer's breach of the duty; and (4) the plaintiff must have suffered damages. See Indem. Ins. of N. Am. v. Am. Aviation, Inc., 344 F.3d 1136 , 1146 (11th Cir. 2003). As the Defendants argue, and as the Court has noted above, the Plaintiffs' failure to allege specific years during which Mr. Echols smoked each Defendant's cigarettes means he has failed to plead an injury which is legally caused by each Defendant's breach. Count II is thus dismissed without prejudice.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 iii. Fraud (Count III) and Conspiracy to Commit Fraud (Count IV) \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 The elements of a fraud claim under Florida law are: a "(1) false statement of material fact or suppression of truth by the defendant; (2) that the defendant knew the statement was false; (3) the defendant intended the false statement or omission to induce the plaintiff's reliance; and (4) the plaintiff justifiably relied to his detriment." Grills v. Philip Morris USA, Inc., 645 F. Supp. 2d 1107 , 1122-23 (M.D. Fla. 2009). In addition to pleading a claim for fraud, the Plaintiffs also claim that the Defendants conspired to commit fraud. Any conspiracy claim must be premised on an "actionable underlying tort or wrong." Raimi v. Furlong, 702 So. 2d 1273 , 1284 (Fla. 3d Dist. Ct. App. 1997); see also Marlborough Holdings Group, Ltd. v. Azimut-Benetti, 505 F. App'x 899 , 907 (11th Cir. 2013) (noting under Florida law that a claim of conspiracy to commit fraud fails if the underlying fraud claim is meritless). Because the success of the conspiracy claim is tied to the success of the underlying fraud claim, the Court discusses the fraud claim exclusively below, except as otherwise noted.\
The Complaint as it stands makes it impossible for a trier of fact to determine whether Mr. Echols justifiably relied to his detriment on the false statements allegedly made by the Defendants. Although the Complaint goes into more detail as to the Defendants' deceptive conduct and statements than the Defendants' Motion to Dismiss seems to appreciate, that lengthy discussion is irrelevant unless the Complaint properly ties Mr. Echols' reliance on each Defendant's statements to his purchase of each Defendant's products\'97i.e., unless the Complaint sufficiently alleges detrimental reliance. For this reason, Counts III and, correspondingly, IV are dismissed without prejudice.\
The Defendants also argue that the Plaintiffs' fraud claim is barred by the 12-year statute of repose applicable to fraud-based claims, Florida Statute section 95.031(2)(a). The Court does not need to decide this issue, as the fraud counts are dismissed without prejudice for the reasons stated above. However, the Court notes that the Defendants' Motion to Dismiss states that "the most recent allegation of fraud [*6] in Plaintiff's Third Amended Complaint occurred in 1999." DE 70 at 12. The Plaintiffs do not appear to contest this assertion, as their only response to this claim is to state that "[i]t is undisputed that the last act done in furtherance of the tobacco conspiracy occurred no earlier than 1990." DE 71 at 11. We are in the year 2014. If the last act done in furtherance of the conspiracy to commit fraud4 occurred in 1990, as the Plaintiffs appear to state in their Response, the Plaintiffs' fraud and conspiracy to commit fraud claims would fail even under their own interpretation of the statute of repose.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 iv. Florida Deceptive and Unfair Trade Practices Act (Count V) \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 The Defendants argue that the Plaintiffs' Florida Deceptive and Unfair Trade Practices Act ("FDUTPA") claim fails as a matter of law. DE 70 at 9. This Court agrees. FDUTPA expressly states that it "does not apply to . . . [a] claim for personal injury or death or a claim for damage to property other than the property that is the subject of the consumer transaction." Fla. Stat. \'a7 501.212(3) ; see also, e.g., Taviere v. Precision Motor Cars, Inc., No. 8:09-cv-467-TTBM, 2010 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 12493 , 2010 WL 557347 , at *5 (M.D. Fla. Feb. 12, 2010); T.W.M. v. Am. Med. Sys., Inc., 886 F. Supp. 842 , 844 (N.D. Fla. 1995); Gorran v. Atkins Nutritionals, Inc., 464 F. Supp. 2d 315 , 329 (S.D.N.Y. 2006). Plaintiffs allege that Mr. Echols relied on "unfair and deceptive trade practices" that caused him to become "severely injured" and suffer "serious injury and illness." DE 67 \'b6 183. Because he asserts claims for personal injury, the FDUTPA claim fails as a matter of law and Count V is dismissed with prejudice.5 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 v. Loss of Consortium (Count VI) \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Loss of consortium is a derivative claim, predicated on the success of the underlying claims of the married individual's spouse. See Kimbrell v. Paige, 448 So. 2d 1009 , 1013 (Fla. 1984). Because the Court has dismissed each of the underlying claims in the instant action (all, with the exception of Count V, without prejudice), Mrs. Echols's loss of consortium claim is accordingly dismissed without prejudice.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 C. Punitive Damages \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 "A claim for punitive damages is not a separate and distinct cause of action; rather it is auxiliary to, and dependent upon, the existence of an underlying claim." Liggett Grp. Inc. v. Engle, 853 So. 2d 434 , 456 (Fla. Dist. Ct. App. 2003), approved in part, quashed in part sub nom. Engle v. Liggett Grp., Inc., 945 So. 2d 1246 (Fla. 2006). Because each of the counts in the Complaint has been dismissed (all without prejudice, except for Count V), the Plaintiffs' punitive damages claims are likewise dismissed without prejudice.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 III. CONCLUSION \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 For all of the foregoing reasons, the Court finds that the Plaintiffs' Third Amended Complaint [DE 67] fails to state a claim for which relief can be granted. It is therefore\
ORDERED AND ADJUDGED that the Defendants' Motion to Dismiss [DE 70] is GRANTED. The Plaintiffs' Third Amended Complaint [DE 67] is DISMISSED WITHOUT PREJUDICE as to Counts I, II, III, IV, VI, and punitive damages, and DISMISSED WITH PREJUDICE as to Count V. The Plaintiffs have until October 27, 2014 to file an amended complaint limited to the claims alleged in Counts I, II, III, IV, [*7] and VI. The Plaintiffs may again allege and request punitive damages. Once the Plaintiffs have filed their amended complaint, the Defendants have ten (10) days from the filing date to respond.\
DONE and ORDERED in Chambers, Fort Pierce, Florida, this 15th day of October, 2014.\
/s/ Robin L. Rosenberg \
ROBIN L. ROSENBERG \
UNITED STATES DISTRICT JUDGE\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0  \uc0\u8232 \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 1\
There are other troubling inconsistencies in the Plaintiffs' Complaint. For example, in paragraph 13 the Plaintiffs allege that "Mr. Echols used at least 11 brands manufactured by RJ Reynolds, 3 by Philip Morris and 3 by Lorillard." Yet the Complaint only alleges that Mr. Echols smoked four RJ Reynolds brands (Winston Lights and Doral, \'b6 13; Camel and Winston, \'b6 167), one Philip Morris brand (Marlboro, \'b6 13), and two Lorillard brands (Newport and Kent, \'b6 13). That leaves seven RJ Reynolds brands, two Philip Morris brands, and one Lorillard brand unaccounted for in the Complaint. However, inconsistencies like these, if present alone, would not be sufficient to merit dismissal of the Complaint. The Court simply notes them.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 2\
The Plaintiffs may not wish to leave such determinations in the Court's hands. Under this reading of the Plaintiffs' Complaint, if the Court were to concur with the Defendants' assessment of the fraud statute of repose (discussed infra) it would be forced to dismiss the fraud claims as to Philip Morris as a matter of law, because Mr. Echols's use of Marlboro\'97the only Philip Morris brand named in the Complaint\'97would fall outside the repose period. Thus, it may also benefit the Plaintiffs to allege their claims with more specificity, lest the Court interpret those claims in a way the Plaintiffs did not intend.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 3\
Although the issues of proximate cause are the paramount defect in the Plaintiffs' claim, the Court also found the lack of specificity as to the nature of the defect troubling.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 4\
It seems as if the Plaintiffs are arguing that acts committed in furtherance of a conspiracy to commit fraud, as opposed to fraudulent statements themselves, are enough to carry a fraud claim into the repose period. See DE 71 at 11 (arguing that "[t]he Third District Court and other districts hold that statute of repose does not even apply to claims for fraudulent concealment," but quoting portions of Frazier v. Philip Morris USA Inc., 89 So. 3d 937 , (Fla. 3d Dist. Ct. App. 2012), referring to acts done in furtherance of a conspiracy as relevant to the cut-off date).\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 5\
Tellingly, the Plaintiffs only respond to Defendants' secondary argument on this claim\'97namely, that the Complaint fails to comply with federal pleading standards. See DE 71 at 9. Because this Court finds the Defendants' first argument dispositive, it need not reach the second.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb566\sa1133\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0          
\f0\fs42 General Information\

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 Judge(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Robin L. Rosenberg\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Related Docket(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 2:13-cv-14215 (S.D. Fla.);\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Topic(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Torts; Civil Procedure; Consumer Law\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Industries\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Tobacco\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Date Filed\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 2014-10-15 00:00:00\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Parties\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 DANIEL S. ECHOLS and LORI ELLEN ECHOLS, Plaintiffs, v. RJ REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO. individually and as successor by merger to Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corporation (a/k/a Brown & Williamson USA, Inc.) and the American Tobacco Company (f/k/a The American Tobacco Company, Inc.), PHILIP MORRIS U.S.A. INC., and LORILLARD TOBACCO COMPANY, Defendants.\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Court\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 United States District Court for the Southern District of Florida\cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\li674\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\fs20 \cf0 Pagination \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 *
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 BL
\f1\fs24 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\li674\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Majority Opinion > 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE MIDDLE DISTRICT OF FLORIDA, TAMPA DIVISION\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0  \uc0\u8232 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 NORIS BABB, Plaintiff, v. ROBERT A. MCDONALD, SECRETARY, DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS, Defendant. 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0  \uc0\u8232 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Case No. 8:14-cv-1732-T-33TBM \
May 11, 2016, Filed May 11, 2016, Decided \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 For Noris Babb, Plaintiff: Joseph D. Magri, LEAD ATTORNEY, Merkle Magri & Meythaler, PA, Tampa, FL.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 For Robert A. McDonald, Secretary, Department of Veterans Affairs, Defendant: Michael Kenneth, LEAD ATTORNEY, US Attorney's Office - FLM, Tampa, FL.\
For Peter J. Grilli, Mediator: Peter John Grilli, LEAD ATTORNEY, Peter J. Grilli, PA, Tampa, FL.
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 VIRGINIA M. HERNANDEZ COVINGTON, UNITED STATES DISTRICT JUDGE.
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 VIRGINIA M. HERNANDEZ COVINGTON \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 ORDER
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 This matter comes before the Court pursuant to Plaintiff Noris Babb's Objection to the Magistrate's Order Dated March 28, 2016 (Doc. # 51), which was filed on April 7, 2016. Defendant, the Secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs, filed a Response in Opposition to the Objection (Doc. # 61) on April 20, 2016. For the reasons that follow, the Court overrules Babb's objection to the Magistrate Judge's discovery Order.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 I. Factual and Procedural Background 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Babb initiated this age and gender employment discrimination and retaliation action against her employer, the VA, on July 17, 2014. (Doc. # 1). Babb is "a female over the age of forty" who has been employed as a VA pharmacist since 2006. (Doc. # 1 at \'b6 6). Among other detailed contentions, Babb claims that she was "subjected to a hostile work environment and harassment based upon sex (female), age, and reprisal (EEO activity)" with respect to requests for advanced training and denial of promotions. ( Id. at \'b6 8). After holding a case management hearing on October 3, 2014, the Court entered its Case Management and Scheduling Order (Doc. # 11). That Order set the discovery deadline as September 11, 2015, and specified: "Each party shall timely serve discovery requests so that the Rules allow for a response prior to the discovery deadline. The Court may deny as untimely all motions to compel filed after the discovery deadline." (Doc. # 11 at 3).\
Babb filed an Amended Complaint on October 10, 2014, to refine her contentions. (Doc. # 12). On October 23, 2014, the VA filed a Motion seeking the dismissal of the Amended Complaint pursuant to Rule 12(b)(1) and 12(b)(6), Fed. R. Civ. P. (Doc. # 14). In response, Babb requested permission to further amend her Complaint, which this Court granted, resulting in the denial of the Motion to Dismiss on mootness grounds. (Doc. ## 17, 18). Babb filed her Second Amended Complaint on November 12, 2014. (Doc. # 19). Once again, the VA moved to dismiss (Doc. # 20), and after hearing Babb's response, the Court granted the Motion to Dismiss. (Doc. # 22). The Court specified that it would allow Babb a third and final opportunity to amend her Complaint, and Babb filed a timely Third Amended Complaint on December 19, 2014. (Doc. # 27). Babb asserts retaliation in Count I, gender and age discrimination in Count II, hostile work environment in Count III, and requests injunctive relief in Count IV. The VA filed a Motion to Dismiss the Third Amended Complaint on December 24, 2014. (Doc. # 28). The Court denied that Motion on January 22, 2015. (Doc. # 30).\
Thereafter, [*2] discovery issues cropped up, necessitating multiple extensions of the case management deadlines. Specifically, Babb filed an Motion requesting a 90-day enlargement of the case management deadlines on August 13, 2015, explaining: "Plaintiff needs additional time to allow the Defendant to search, review for relevance, and produce electronic discovery, while also allowing the Plaintiff sufficient time to review what the Defendant produces prior to deposing custodians (if necessary) and supervisors whose files are being searched." (Doc. # 40 at 1). The Court granted the Motion by entering an Amended Case Management and Scheduling Order. (Doc. ## 41, 42).\
Then, on November 5, 2015, the VA, in turn, requested an additional 90-day extension of the case management deadlines. (Doc. # 43). The VA explained that "the parties reached an agreement on searches for electronically-stored information (ESI) in late July . . . . Unfortunately, . . . the Defendant encountered obstacles obtaining the relevant ESI." ( Id. at 1-2). The VA further reported that in August of 2015, "the VA sent our office a disc with ESI for the relevant custodians, but, before we even received it, the VA recognized that it was deficient and said they needed to redo the searches." ( Id. at 2). The VA further remarked "we should have the ESI by early December" of 2015, and "then we will begin to review the materials, which we can hopefully start in early January" of 2016. ( Id. at 2).\
The Court granted the VA's extension Motion on November 5, 2015, and warned: "No further extensions of the case management deadlines will be authorized in this case." (Doc. # 44). The Court entered a Second Amended Case Management and Scheduling Order on November 6, 2015, which established the discovery deadline as March 11, 2016, the dispositive motions deadline as April 11, 2016, set a pretrial conference for August 11, 2016, and placed the case on the September 2016, trial term. (Doc. # 45).\
The November 6, 2015, Second Amended Case Management and Scheduling Order is the operative Scheduling Order and restates the admonition that "The Court may deny as untimely all motions to compel filed after the discovery deadline." ( Id. at 3). The Order also warns that "The deadlines established in this Case Management and Scheduling Order are not advisory but must be complied with absent approval of the Court." ( Id. at 4). Finally, the Order explains that "motions for an extension of the discovery period are disfavored" and that deadlines "will not be extended absent a showing of good cause." ( Id.).\
On March 25, 2016, two weeks after the expiration of the discovery deadline, Babb filed two motions to compel discovery and requested yet another extension of the discovery deadline. (Doc. ## 46, 47). Among other contentions, Babb argued that the VA's Rule 30(b)(6) deponents were not knowledgeable. The Magistrate Judge denied both Motions to Compel on March 28, 2016. (Doc. # 48). Babb now objects to the Magistrate Judge's denial of her Motions to Compel. (Doc. # 51). The VA has responded to Babb's objection. (Doc. # 61).\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 II. Legal Standard 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 A district court shall consider objections to a magistrate judge's order on nondispositive [*3] matters and modify or set aside any portion of the order if it is found to be "clearly erroneous" or "contrary to law." Fed. R. Civ. P. 72(a) . A finding of fact is clearly erroneous only if the reviewing court is left with a definite and firm conviction that a mistake has been made. See Ford v. Haley, 195 F.3d 603 , 617 (11th Cir. 1999). A finding is contrary to law if it fails to apply or misapplies relevant statutes, case law, or rules of procedure. 800 Adept, Inc. v. Murex Sec., Ltd., No. 6:02-cv-1354-Orl-19AB, [2007 BL 109303], 2007 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 70861 , at *6 (M.D. Fla. Sept. 25, 2007).\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 III. Analysis 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 When the Magistrate Judge denied Babb's untimely Motions to Compel Discovery and her attendant requests for an extension of the discovery deadline, the case management deadlines had already been enlarged multiple times for protracted periods. As an example, the initial Case Management and Scheduling Order established September 11, 2015, as the discovery deadline and contemplated that the case would be tried during the March, 2016, trial term. (Doc. # 11). Due to the various extensions required here, the discovery period was extended for an additional six months, with depositions being taken up to the March 11, 2016, discovery deadline.\
The VA correctly remarks that the Magistrate Judge's Order "is neither clearly erroneous nor contrary to law." (Doc. # 61 at 3). Had this Court been the one to decide Babb's discovery motions, the undersigned would have reached an identical ruling. Local Rule 3.05(c)(2)(E) states: "It is the goal of the court that a trial will be conducted in all Track Two Cases within two years after the filing of the complaint, and that most such cases will be tried within one year after the filing of the complaint." With the Complaint having been filed in this case on July 17, 2014, and a jury trial currently set for the Court's September, 2016, trial term, this case has already exceeded the time parameters of the Local Rules. As such, there was no way that this Court would authorize a further extension of the case management deadlines.\
Furthermore, with no less than three Orders repeating the refrain that "The Court may deny as untimely all motions to compel filed after the discovery deadline," (Doc. ## 11, 42, 45), the Magistrate Judge was correct to deny Babb's Motions to Compel, which were filed after the expiration of the discovery deadline. The Court accordingly overrules Babb's objection to the Magistrate Judge's discovery Order, finding that such order was neither clearly erroneous nor contrary to law.\
Accordingly, it is\
ORDERED, ADJUDGED, and DECREED:\
Plaintiff Noris Babb's Objection to the Magistrate's Order Dated March 28, 2016 (Doc. # 51) is OVERRULED.\
DONE and ORDERED in Chambers in Tampa, Florida, this 11th day of May, 2016.\
/s/ Virginia M. Hernandez Covington\
VIRGINIA M. HERNANDEZ COVINGTON\
UNITED STATES DISTRICT JUDGE
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb566\sa1133\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0          
\f0\fs42 General Information\

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 Judge(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Virginia Maria Hernandez Covington\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Related Docket(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 8:14-cv-01732 (M.D. Fla.);\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Topic(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Other\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Date Filed\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 2016-05-11 00:00:00\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Parties\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 NORIS BABB, Plaintiff, v. ROBERT A. MCDONALD, SECRETARY, DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS, Defendant.\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Court\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 United States District Court for the Middle District of Florida\cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\li674\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\fs20 \cf0 Pagination \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 *
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 BL
\f1\fs24 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\li674\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Majority Opinion > 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE MIDDLE DISTRICT OF FLORIDA, TAMPA DIVISION\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0  \uc0\u8232 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 CENTENNIAL BANK, Plaintiff, v. SERVISFIRST BANK INC. and GREGORY W. BRYANT, Defendants. 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0  \uc0\u8232 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Case No: 8:16-cv-88-T-36JSS \
July 1, 2016, Filed July 1, 2016, Decided \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 For Centennial Bank, an Arkansas state chartered bank, Plaintiff: Andrew James Ghekas, John A. Anthony, Stephenie Biernacki Anthony, LEAD ATTORNEYS, Anthony & Partners, LLC, Tampa, FL; Eduardo A. Suarez, The Suarez Law Firm, P.A., Tampa, FL.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 For ServisFirst Bank Inc., an Alabama state chartered bank, Defendant: Michael Sansbury, LEAD ATTORNEY, William Thomas Paulk, Spotswood Sansom & Sansbury, LLC, Birmingham, AL; Sean P. Keefe, James, Hoyer, Newcomer & Smiljanich, PA, Tampa, FL.\
For Gregory W. Bryant, an individual, Defendant: Burton Webb Wiand, Gianluca Morello, Jared J. Perez, LEAD ATTORNEYS, Wiand Guerra King, PL, Tampa, FL.\
For Catapult Solutions, LLC, Catapult Funding, LLC, Catapult ALF 1, LLC, Catapult ALF 2, LLC, Respondents: Gianluca Morello, LEAD ATTORNEY, Wiand Guerra King, PL, Tampa, FL.\
For Peter J. Grilli, Mediator: Peter John Grilli, LEAD ATTORNEY, Peter J. Grilli, PA, Tampa, FL.\
For Gwynn Davey, Patrick Murrin, Third Party Custodians: Michael Sansbury, William Thomas Paulk, LEAD ATTORNEYS, Spotswood Sansom & Sansbury, LLC, Birmingham, AL; Sean P. Keefe, James, Hoyer, Newcomer & Smiljanich, PA, Tampa, FL.
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 JULIE S. SNEED, UNITED STATES MAGISTRATE JUDGE.
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 JULIE S. SNEED \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 ORDER
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 THIS MATTER is before the Court on Plaintiff Centennial Bank's Motion to Compel Complete Responses to Subpoenas to Produce Documents Served on ServisFirst Employees ("Non-Party Motion") (Dkt. 88) and Plaintiff Centennial Bank's Motion to Compel Bryant to Provide Better Responses to Centennial Bank's First Request for Production ("Bryant Motion") (Dkt. 124). On June 28, 2016, a hearing was held on the Non-Party Motion and the Bryant Motion. Upon consideration of the parties' oral arguments on the Non-Party Motion and the Bryant Motion at the hearing and for the reasons stated on the record at the hearing, the Non-Party Motion is granted and the Bryant Motion is denied.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 BACKGROUND 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 A. Overview 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 This case concerns alleged violations of the non-compete provisions in the employment contracts of several of Plaintiff Centennial Bank's ("Centennial") former employees. Centennial acquired Bay Cities Bank ("Bay Cities") in October 2015. (Dkt. 53 at \'b6 7(b).) In connection with the acquisition, Centennial retained several former Bay Cities employees to aid in the integration of its Tampa Bay area branches, specifically Defendant Gregory W. Bryant, the former CEO of Bay Cities, Patrick Murrin, former Chief Risk Manager and Executive Vice President of Bay Cities, and Gwynn Davey, Bay Cities' former Market President of Hillsborough County. ( Id. at \'b6\'b6 13, 26-27.) Mr. Bryant, Mr. Murrin, and Ms. Davey signed employment contracts with Centennial that included provisions governing the maintenance of Centennial's confidential information; noncompetition; non-solicitation of Centennial's customers; and non-solicitation of Centennial's employees. ( Id. at \'b6\'b6 24-25; Ex. 6-8.)\
On December 31, 2015, after Centennial's acquisition of Bay Cities, Mr. Bryant, Mr. Murrin, [*2] and Ms. Davey simultaneously resigned from Centennial and, in January 2016, began working for Defendant ServisFirst Bank ("ServisFirst"). ( Id. at \'b6\'b6 42-44, 49, 53.) Shortly thereafter, on January 14, 2016, Centennial filed suit against ServisFirst and Mr. Bryant (collectively, "Defendants"). (Dkt. 1.)\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 B. Non-Party Motion 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 In the Non-Party Motion, Centennial seeks to compel Ms. Davey and Mr. Murrin (together, "Non-Parties") to produce documents responsive to its subpoenas. (Dkt. 88 at \'b6 7.) The information Centennial seeks from the Non-Parties are: (1) Centennial's confidential information that the Non-Parties allegedly forwarded to their personal email accounts while still employed by Centennial, which Centennial contends is contained in the Non-Parties' personal email accounts, and (2) indemnification agreements between the Non-Parties and ServisFirst, executed on December 31, 2015.\
With regard to the confidential information Centennial contends is in the Non-Parties' personal email accounts, Centennial seeks an order compelling the Non-Parties to produce the hard drives of their personal devices for inspection and mirror imaging. ( Id. at 18-21.) This measure is warranted, Centennial argued, because there is a question of whether the Non-Parties deleted their personal emails at the end of 2015 and, therefore, the information it seeks from the Non-Parties may not be otherwise obtainable. ( Id. at 13, 20-21) ("[Counsel for the Non-Parties] communicated that Davey had committed 'e-mail bankruptcy' and deleted all of her personal emails at the end of 2015 and that Murrin followed a similar procedure.").\
As further articulated at the June 28, 2016 hearing, Centennial requests that a data specialist be permitted to access the devices the Non-Parties used to access their personal email accounts and mirror image the hard drives, which would remain in the specialist's custody pending resolution of the Non-Party Motion. Also, Centennial requests that the specialist be permitted to access the Non-Parties' personal email accounts in order to determine which devices accessed the email accounts and whether emails were deleted or captured in the accounts' archives. At the hearing, the parties conferred as to the procedure for mirror imaging the Non-Parties' hard drives and reached a tentative agreement in that regard.\
As to the indemnification agreements, at the hearing, Centennial argued that the agreements do not constitute work product because they were not created in anticipation of litigation, as demonstrated by the timeline of events leading up to the execution of the agreements. Specifically, on December 11, 2015, ServisFirst offered Mr. Bryant and the Non-Parties positions with ServisFirst. On December 31, 2015, the Non-Parties and Mr. Bryant gave their notice to Centennial and executed the indemnification agreements on the same day. Finally, on January 11, 2016, Centennial sent cease and desist letters to Defendants and the Non-Parties, and on January 14, 2016, Centennial filed suit. Thus, Centennial argues, the Non-Parties could not have anticipated [*3] litigation when the indemnification agreements were executed because no demand had been made or suit filed.\
At the hearing, the Non-Parties contended that they have produced all responsive documents, with the exception of the indemnification agreements, but that, to the extent emails were deleted and are recoverable, those emails have not been produced. They also objected to Centennial's request to mirror image the hard drives of their devices because the request is overly broad and unduly burdensome. (Dkt. 121 at 3-8.) The Non-Parties argued that the indemnification agreements are protected from production by the work product doctrine because the language of the agreements themselves show that they were prepared in anticipation of litigation such as the present case. ( Id. at 8.)\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 C. Bryant Motion 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Centennial moves to compel responses to requests for production it served on Mr. Bryant. As narrowed at the hearing, Centennial seeks (1) the indemnity agreement between ServisFirst and Mr. Bryant and (2) emails from Mr. Bryant's personal email account that he has yet to produce, should such emails exist. Generally, Centennial argued, Mr. Bryant's objections to the requests for production are insufficiently specific and should be overruled. (Dkt. 124 at 6-8.) Further, Mr. Bryant waived any assertions of attorney-client privilege or work product, Centennial argued, because he served his privilege log about a week after he produced responsive documents. ( Id. at 11.)\
In response, Mr. Bryant argued that the indemnification agreements are protected from discovery by the work product doctrine because the agreements themselves state that they were created in anticipation of the present litigation. (Dkt. 139 at 9-10.) Further, he did not waive this protection, Mr. Bryant argued, because no federal rule requires service of a privilege log simultaneously with the responses to production requests and, here, his log was served only six business days after his production of responsive documents. (Dkt. 139 at 4-6.) Finally, at the hearing, counsel for Mr. Bryant stated that Mr. Bryant has produced his emails to Centennial, and, to the extent he withholds responsive documents on the basis of his objections, he identified such documents on his privilege log and specifically stated so in his objections.\
Finally, at the hearing, counsel for Mr. Bryant offered to submit his indemnification agreement with ServisFirst for the Court's in camera review. Counsel for the Non-Parties likewise agreed to submit the Non-Parties' indemnification agreements with ServisFirst. Following the hearing, the indemnification agreements were submitted for in camera review.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 APPLICABLE STANDARDS 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 A party, "[o]n notice to other parties and all affected persons," may move to compel discovery. Fed. R. Civ. P. 37(a)(1) . "[A]n evasive or incomplete disclosure, answer, or response must be treated as a failure to disclose, answer, or respond."  Id. at 37(a)(4) . Courts maintain great discretion to regulate discovery. Patterson v. U.S. Postal Serv., 901 F.2d 927 , 929 (11th Cir. 1990). The court has broad discretion to compel or deny discovery. [*4] Josendis v. Wall to Wall Residence Repairs, Inc., 662 F.3d 1292 , 1306 (11th Cir. 2011).\
Through discovery, parties may obtain materials that are within the scope of discovery, meaning they are nonprivileged, relevant to any party's claim or defense, and "proportional to the needs of the case." Fed. R. Civ. P. 26(b)(1) . The term "relevant" is "construed broadly to encompass any matter that bears on, or that reasonably could lead to other matter that could bear on, any issue that is or may be in the case." Oppenheimer Fund, Inc. v. Sanders, 437 U.S. 340 , 351 , 98 S. Ct. 2380 , 57 L. Ed. 2d 253 (1978). Courts consider the following factors when evaluating whether requested discovery is proportional to the needs of the case: (1) "the importance of the issues at stake in the action," (2) "the amount in controversy," (3) the parties' relative access to relevant information," (4) "the parties' resources," (5) "the importance of the discovery in resolving the issues," and (6) "whether the burden or expense of the proposed discovery outweighs its likely benefit." Fed. R. Civ. P. 26(b)(1) .\
Parties responsible for issuing subpoenas "must take reasonable steps to avoid imposing undue burden or expense on a person subject to the subpoena," and the Court must enforce this duty.  Id. at 45(d)(1) . An order compelling production "must protect a person who is neither a party nor a party's officer from significant expense resulting from compliance."  Id. at 45(d)(2)(B)(ii) . In response to a subpoena, a subpoenaed person may serve objections to the subpoena and, if a person withholds information under a claim of privilege or work product protection, the person must "expressly make the claim" and "describe the nature of the withheld documents, communications, or tangible things in a manner that, without revealing information itself privileged or protected, will enable the parties to assess the claim."  Id. at 45(d)(2)(B) and (e)(2) .\
Under the work product doctrine, documents and other "tangible things" are not discoverable by a party when they were "prepared in anticipation of litigation or for trial by or for another party or its representative (including the other party's attorney, consultant, surety, indemnitor, insurer, or agent)."  Id. at 26(b)(3)(A) . These protected materials may be discovered, however, if "they are otherwise discoverable under Rule 26(b)(1) " and the party seeking production "shows that it has substantial need for the materials to prepare its case and cannot, without undue hardship, obtain their substantial equivalent by other means." Id . \
As to the production of electronically-stored information, "[a] party need not provide discovery of electronically stored information from sources that the party identifies as not reasonably accessible because of undue burden or cost."  Id. at 26(b)(2)(B) . When a motion to compel has been filed, the resisting party "must show that the information is not reasonably accessible because of undue burden or cost," and, if such showing is made, "the court may nonetheless order discovery from such sources if the requesting party shows good cause, considering the limitations of Rule 26(b)(2)(C) ." Id . \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 ANALYSIS 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 A. Non-Party Motion 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 As stated on the record at the hearing, the Non-Party Motion is granted and the Non-Parties [*5] shall produce e-discovery responsive to Centennial's requests because the requests are relevant to Centennial's claims in this case. See Fed. R. Civ. P. 26(b)(1) . Specifically, Centennial's information that the Non-Parties forwarded to their personal email accounts while they were still employed by Centennial is relevant to Centennial's allegations of Defendants' wrongdoing. (Dkt. 53 at \'b6 73.)\
As to the indemnification agreements between the Non-Parties and ServisFirst, the indemnification agreements are relevant and therefore discoverable because ServisFirst's agreement to indemnify the Non-Parties and Mr. Bryant in the event of litigation such as the present litigation is relevant to Centennial's claims regarding ServisFirst's interference with the Non-Parties' and Mr. Bryant's employment agreements. See Fed. R. Civ. P. 26(b)(1) . Because the Non-Parties oppose production, it is their burden to establish that the work product doctrine protects the indemnification agreements from discovery. Republic of Ecuador v. Hinchee, 741 F.3d 1185 , 1189 (11th Cir. 2013).\
The work product doctrine protects from production documents and other "tangible things" that were "prepared in anticipation of litigation or for trial by or for another party or its representative (including the other party's attorney, consultant, surety, indemnitor, insurer, or agent)." Fed. R. Civ. P. 26(b)(3)(A) . The Eleventh Circuit, in Tambourine Comercio Internacional SA v. Solowsky, held that "[b]y its plain text, Rule 26(b)(3) applies to documents or things prepared by or for another party or its representative" and held that the work product protection does not apply to documents prepared for those who are not parties to the case "even though the person may be a party to a closely related lawsuit in which he will be disadvantaged if he must disclose in the present suit." 312 F. App'x 263 , 284 (11th Cir. 2009) (internal citations omitted). The Eleventh Circuit's holding inTambourine has been interpreted to mean that "[a] non-party is not entitled to claim work product protection." Bozeman v. Chartis Cas. Co., No. 2:10-CV-102-FTM-36, 2010 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 121678 , 2010 WL 4386826 , at *2 (M.D. Fla. Oct. 29, 2010) (citing Tambourine, 312 F. App'x 263 ).\
Here, the Non-Parties are not parties to the present litigation. As such, they cannot claim the protections of the work product doctrine and therefore must produce the indemnification agreements. However, the Court notes that, since the hearing, ServisFirst has filed a motion to quash Centennial's subpoenas to the Non-Parties to the extent they seek the indemnification agreements. (See Dkts. 160-161.) At the time of entry of this Order, ServisFirst's motion to quash remains pending. Accordingly, the Court finds it appropriate to stay the Non-Parties' production of the indemnification agreements pending the disposition of ServisFirst's motion to quash.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 B. Bryant Motion 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 The Court rejects Centennial's contention that Mr. Bryant's objections to Centennial's request for production are not sufficiently specific because, after review of his objections (Dkt. 124 at Ex. B), the Court finds that Mr. Bryant adequately stated the basis for his objections and the objections are well taken. The Court further rejects Centennial'[*6] s argument that Mr. Bryant has waived any attorney-client privilege or work product protections because Centennial cites no binding authority that a privilege log must be produced simultaneously with a party's responses and, in any event, Mr. Bryant served his privilege log shortly after providing responsive documents. Universal City Dev. Partners, Ltd. v. Ride & Show Eng'g, Inc., 230 F.R.D. 688 , 696 (M.D. Fla. 2005) ("The Eleventh Circuit has never determined what constitutes a timely production of a privilege log in response to a request for production of documents."). Further, Centennial suffered no prejudice due to the short delay.\
As to Centennial's request to compel production of the indemnification between ServisFirst and Mr. Bryant, the Court denies the request because it is protected from discovery under the work product doctrine. Specifically, Mr. Bryant, as a party, may assert the work product protection and, after the Court's in camera inspection of the indemnification agreement, the agreement, on its face, states that it was prepared in anticipation of litigation such as the present litigation.1 See Fed. R. Civ. P. 26(b)(3)(A) . Further, Centennial has not shown that the agreement is "otherwise discoverable under Rule 26(b)(1) " or that it has a "substantial need for the materials to prepare its case and cannot, without undue hardship, obtain their substantial equivalent by other means." See Fed. R. Civ. P. 26(b)(3) .\
Accordingly, it is\
1. Plaintiff Centennial Bank's Motion to Compel Complete Responses to Subpoenas to Produce Documents Served on ServisFirst Employees ("Non-Party Motion") (Dkt. 88) is GRANTED; however, the Non-Parties' obligation to produce the indemnification agreements is stayed pending the disposition of ServisFirst's motion to quash. (See Dkts. 160-161.)\
2. The Non-Parties shall serve e-discovery responsive to Centennial's subpoenas within sixty (60) days of entry of this Order.\
3. Plaintiff Centennial Bank's Motion to Compel Bryant to Provide Better Responses to Centennial Bank's First Request for Production ("Bryant Motion") (Dkt. 124) is DENIED.\
DONE and ORDERED in Tampa, Florida on July 1, 2016.\
/s/ Julie S. Sneed\
JULIE S. SNEED\
UNITED STATES MAGISTRATE JUDGE
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0  \uc0\u8232 \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 1\
The indemnification agreement between ServisFirst and non-parties Mr. Murrin and Ms. Davey were virtually identical to the indemnification agreement between ServisFirst and Mr. Bryant. Having conducted an in camera review of the three agreements, they all appear to have been prepared in anticipation of litigation such as the present litigation.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb566\sa1133\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0          
\f0\fs42 General Information\

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 Judge(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Julie Sneed\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Related Docket(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 8:16-cv-00088 (M.D. Fla.);\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Topic(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Civil Procedure\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Date Filed\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 2016-07-01 00:00:00\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Parties\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 CENTENNIAL BANK, Plaintiff, v. SERVISFIRST BANK INC. and GREGORY W. BRYANT, Defendants.\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Court\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 United States District Court for the Middle District of Florida\cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\li674\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\fs20 \cf0 Pagination \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 *
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 BL
\f1\fs24 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\li674\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Majority Opinion > 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 U.S. District Court, Southern District of Florida\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0  \uc0\u8232 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 DISNEY ENTERPRISES, INC., et al., Plaintiffs, v. HOTFILE CORP., et al., Defendants. 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0  \uc0\u8232 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 1:11-cv-20427-KMW \
September 20, 2013 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 KATHLEEN M. WILLIAMS, District Judge. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb108\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 ORDER\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 THIS MATTER is before the Court on several pending motions for summary judgment, which were filed under seal and in a public, but redacted form (DE 255, DE 275, DE 276, DE 280, DE 301, DE 316, DE 318, DE 322). In connection with this briefing, the parties filed numerous related motions to strike (DE 217, DE 241, DE 339, DE 452, DE 371, DE 387), supplemental briefing permitted by the Court (DE 474, DE 475), and additional, robust pleadings on supplemental authority without leave of Court (DE 443, DE 444, DE 500, DE 501, DE 502, DE 503, DE 504, DE 505, DE 507, DE 509, DE 510, DE 513, DE 514, DE 515, DE 516, DE 517, DE 523). 1  Finally, the Court permitted the Electronic Frontier Foundation to file a brief as amicus curiae (DE 480). The Court addresses all related filings in this Order. To the extent that this Order discusses information considered by the parties to be business secrets, it will be redacted in a public version of this decision.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb108\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 I. BACKGROUND\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 This case concerns the actions of an off-shore technology company that provides online file storage services, Defendant Hotfile Corp., and one of its founders, Defendant Anton Titov (collectively, "Hotfile" or "Defendants"). Plaintiffs are five major media studios and entertainment companies (collectively, the "Studios") that hold copyrights on various artistic works: Disney Enterprises, Inc., Twentieth Century Fox Film Corporation, Universal City Studios Productions LLLP, Columbia Pictures Industries, Inc., and Warner Bros. Entertainment Inc. ("Warner"). The gravamen of the Studios' claim is that Hotfile's users have abused its system by sharing licensed materials belonging to the Studios and that Hotfile and Titov are liable as a result.\
The pending motions for summary judgment seek an adjudication that Hotfile's activities are not (or are) entitled to a statutory safe harbor protection created by Congress fifteen years ago in the Digital Millennium Copyright Act ("DMCA"), 17 U.S.C. \'a7 1201, et seq.; that Hotfile is (or is not) liable for secondary copyright infringement at common law; that Titov is (or is not) personally liable for Hotfile's activities as one of its corporate officers and founders; and that Warner is not liable for itself abusing a system that enabled it to remove works from Hotfile's system. After considering the extensive factual record and applying the relevant law, the Court concludes that Defendants have failed to meet criteria necessary for safe harbor protection; that Defendants are vicariously liable for the actions of Hotfile's users, but that questions of fact preclude a determination of other forms of secondary liability; that Titov is individually liable for the actions of his company, such that he will have to share in whatever judgment Hotfile is deemed to owe; and that Hotfile may proceed on a counterclaim it filed against Warner relating to notices of infringement. This action will proceed to trial on all unresolved issues of liability [*2] as well as for a determination of the measure of damages.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb108\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 A. Hotfile's System\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Hotfile, which began its operations on February 19, 2009, is what is known as an online "storage locker." The company operates an Internet website that allows registered users to take electronic files of any type that are stored on their computers or other accessible locations and transfer them to Hotfile's electronic storage system through an uploading process. As a result, a copy of that file then exists on Hotfile's servers. The website provides a simple interface between Hotfile users (and their data) and Hotfile's storage network, connecting them with just a few computer mouse clicks. Once a file is uploaded, the uploading user automatically receives one or more unique URL links containing the file name and an extension. So, for example, if a user uploads a piece of software called "JDownloader" - which is a real program whose authors voluntarily uploaded it through Hotfile's website - Hotfile would issue the user a link location such as " http://hotfile.com/dl/14052520/7a3c8f8/JDownloader%200.8.821 . zip.html." As can be seen, the link generally gives some indication of the file name, and thus, its possible content. By entering that link into the address bar of any Internet web browser on any computer, the user may retrieve and download his file. Hotfile keeps track of the date, time of use, and certain user information associated with the file. 2 \
While an individual's act of uploading a file is ostensibly innocuous - and indeed, other networks provide similar sorts of services - several of Hotfile's attributes facilitate users' infringement of copyrights. First, while the uploading process places just one copy of the file on Hotfile's servers, that file can be downloaded an unlimited number of times. Moreover, there are no limitations as to how someone can further use or replicate the file.\
Second, because the file is not secure, it is accessible to anyone with an Internet connection. It is important to note that Hotfile provides no index or search feature, which means that anyone trying to access a file must know its exact location or URL - the file is essentially hidden in plain sight. Nevertheless, ways exist for other users to learn about and gain access to files. For instance, Hotfile encourages users to share file links (and thus files) through an affiliate program, which pays individuals to navigate prospective downloaders to file locations. The incentives increase with the size of the file and the frequency of its download but without regard to other characteristics the file might possess (e.g., if it is entertainment media versus utility computer software or if it is created by the user or created by someone else). 3  In practice, Hotfile's affiliates have created their own websites that catalogue files found on Hotfile, promote their files, or allow the public to search for files. In addition, uploading users can themselves broadcast the download links, such as by e-mailing them to people they know or by advertising them through various channels. This has turned Hotfile into not only a storage site, but also a file [*3] distribution network.\
Finally, because Hotfile protects users' privacy, it has effectively refrained from interfering in any way with how its members use the service. In the normal course of its business, for example, Hotfile does not review what its users are uploading, downloading or promoting. Indeed, as discussed below, one of Hotfile's main defenses in this action is that it is unaware of the nature of the content available and has no affirmative duty to monitor user activities.\
Hotfile has sought to increase the use of its system and expand the rate of file sharing because the corporation derives revenue through subscriber fees that users pay to it. Indeed, this is Hotfile's sole source of revenue. While Hotfile is accessible to the public and anyone can upload or download for free, paying nine dollars per month for "premium" status permits uploaders to store their files for a longer period; otherwise, files are automatically deleted every three months. Moreover, premium users who seek to download files benefit from easier access, faster download speeds, and the ability to download files frequently; they would otherwise be restricted to one download every thirty minutes. Hotfile calculates that user activity drives premium subscriptions while rewarding users for giving away access to files they possess. For instance, it is undisputed that Hotfile's affiliate program promotes the use of Hotfile and leads users to convert to premium status.\
By any measure, Hotfile's model has been effective at encouraging user participation and driving growth among downloading users, uploading users and affiliate members. For instance, according to Hotfile's figures, 123 million files available on Hotfile's system have been downloaded 2.9 billion times - 145 million times alone in the month preceding this lawsuit - and have resulted in the registration of 5.3 million users. (Titov Decl. \'b6 36 (DE 396-1).) This has worked a significant financial benefit to Hotfile and its founders. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb108\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 B. Legal Claims at issue\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 As alluded to above, these features - the ease of replication and dissemination of any type of file, the lack of oversight regarding content, and the scale of Hotfile's activity - raise questions of liability for users' illegal activities. 4  In their Complaint filed on February 8, 2011 (DE 1), the Studios allege that while Hotfile proclaims to be an online personal storage site, it is actually designed to provide a mechanism for uploading and downloading users to engage in digital piracy, complete with a system of financial incentives that fosters infringement. They assert that it is Hotfile's infringing uses, not legitimate user activity, that drives the company's business. The Studios bring a claim for secondary infringement (Count II); their claim for direct infringement (Count I) was dismissed by prior order of the Court (DE 94). To frame the legal issues and put into context the evidence discussed throughout this decision, the Court provides the following summary of the parties' positions and their key evidence.\
Although largely [*4] irrelevant to issues of liability, the cornerstone of the Studios' case is a statistical analysis conducted by Dr. Richard Waterman based on classifications provided by their proffered copyright expert, Mr. Scott A. Zebrak. 5  The report concludes that 90.2% of the daily downloads on Hotfile are downloads of "infringing" or "highly infringing" content and that only 5.3% of downloads are noninfringing, with a 1.3% margin of error. (Waterman Decl. \'b6\'b6 22-23 (DE 325-6).) The Studios also provide circumstantial and anecdotal evidence that Hotfile does not serve a primarily lawful purpose, as discussed below. Further, they contend that Hotfile knows about rampant infringement of works owned by the Studios and others, that Hotfile failed to remove infringing material or disable the accounts of users who uploaded such material despite having received eight million infringement notices from copyright holders, and that Hotfile and its uploading users have profited from the infringing activity. As a result, the Studios contend that Hotfile is liable under various theories of secondary copyright infringement and that it cannot avail itself of a safe harbor created in favor of service providers by Congress through Section 512 of the DMCA.\
For its part, Hotfile portrays itself as anything but a pirate network. Hotfile and its founders claim that the corporation's business model is not unusual for the industry. And they contend that the system is used predominantly for storage and other legitimate uses, such as distributing non-licensed software; "space shifting" (i.e., enabling individual users to access their media through another device they own); and the sharing of media that is either created by users (such as videos to promote political change), freely licensed (or altogether not copyrighted), or too large to send by other methods. For example, Hotfile points to the fact that  6 \
Further, through its experts, Hotfile attempts to undermine the Studios' infringement analyses, contending that the Waterman study examined only a one-month period of data from January 2011 (leaving the possibility but hugely improbable likelihood that there was a zero percent infringement rate in other months prior to this lawsuit) and improperly excluded entire categories of files, such as those with adult content, which is often given away with the copyright holders' permission, and public domain material, including works whose copyrights have expired. Hotfile does concede that, at least to some degree, infringement has occurred through its system and the availability of infringing files drives conversions to paid premium accounts. Nonetheless, to the extent that infringement did transpire on its system, Hotfile claims to have been unaware of it.\
6 No other Plaintiffs appear to have done so.\
Hotfile also asserts that to the extent this litigation has highlighted ways it could better police the activity of its users, it has done so (even if it was not required to). This appears to be true. For example, when alerted by the Studios' lawsuit to the presence [*5] of infringing content, Hotfile implemented "powerful countermeasures" against Internet piracy, such as adopting filtering technologies and terminating large numbers of repeat infringers, that go beyond the most rudimentary foils to such activities. In this way, Hotfile advances the claim that it is a small, foreign company that has done everything possible to investigate its users' backgrounds, implement countermeasures to defeat piracy, and comply with United States copyright law (with which it says it was not always familiar). Finally, Hotfile asserts that the Studios have an improper motive in bringing this lawsuit, claiming that they stood witness to, and were complicit in, the alleged violations in order to drive damages and recover post hoc.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb108\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 C. Evidence of Hotfile's Intent\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 The parties have diametrically different views of Hotfile's aims and have devoted much space to debating whether Hotfile set out to serve a legitimate purpose. Hotfile acknowledges that at its inception, it modeled itself after RapidShare, another online storage locker website. Notably, copyright holders eventually claimed that RapidShare was used for infringement and brought suit against it in June 2010 to shut the network down. Hotfile was aware of RapidShare's problems. After the RapidShare lawsuit was filed, one of Hotfile's co-founders, , sent an e-mail to Titov noting an increase in traffic on Hotfile's system and remarking, "[w]hat an unexpected gift we have from Rapidshare:) The bad thing is that they clean up their image while we become the flagship of non-licensed content." (Yeh Decl. Ex. 53 (DE 288-58 (filed under seal; DE 324-11).) One month later, speculated that one reason that "our profits increased so rapidly" was that "Hollywood has closed 3-4 large websites for illegal movies and that could have redirected users to us." (Yeh Decl. Ex. 49 (DE 288-54 (filed under seal); DE 324-11).) Titov responded to that e-mail by specifically naming RapidShare.\
Apart from the generalized statistics highlighted earlier, the Studios have provided a pastiche of evidence related to Hotfile's business model, design and use that they contend makes a circumstantial case that Hotfile understood it was making illegal content available for distribution and tacitly fostering such activity. For instance, the fact that Hotfile encouraged downloading activity - by deleting files that are not frequently downloaded and by paying members only for downloading activity - means that Hotfile was intended to be a distribution network and not merely a storage facility. As a corollary, the Studios contend that Hotfile's affiliate compensation structure rewarded the sharing of larger and popular content, which drove premium conversions and earned revenue for the network.\
On the other hand, Hotfile presents evidence that it conducts its affairs without regard to the nature of the content available on its system (i.e., protected by copyright or otherwise) or user activity (e.g., storage, sharing, streaming, etc.). Hotfile's expert, Dr. Boyle, challenges the Studio's claims [*6] about the conversion rate. Even the Studios' expert, Dr. Ian Foster, acknowledges that entertainment media, which may or may not be protected and which Hotfile users may or may not have had permission to share, can be a single large file, or "divided into several, smaller computer files in order to facilitate transmission or copying." (Foster Decl. \'b6 8 (DE 325-17).)\
The Studios also point to specific documents to refute Hotfile's claims that it did not understand what was occurring on its system. For instance, in an e-mail between Hotfile engineers discussing the company's intellectual property policy, one of them stated that "what is protecting us legally is the fact that we don't know what is up there on our site. If we know, then we are susceptible to lawsuits. And now according to the IP policy, 10 days after a report, we pretend we don't know." (Yeh Decl. Ex. 54 (DE 288-59 (filed under seal); DE 324-11).) The Studios argue that Hotfile turned a blind eye to infringement. Moreover, as previously cited, Hotfile acknowledged (or at least expressed the concern) in the Summer of 2010 that it was becoming "the flagship of non-licensed content" and capturing infringing traffic from competing systems. And as discussed in the DMCA context below, Hotfile received millions of notices from copyright holders claiming that their rights to particular works were being infringed yet failed to target the associated users, failed to remove other identical copies of the works from the system (and only removed offending links and not the offending files), and did not implement robust counter-piracy tools until after this lawsuit was filed.\
With regard to Hotfile's affiliate program, the Studios contend that because of "facially pirate" affiliate sites like "copymovie.net" - a website that, from screenshots, apparently displayed popular movies' promotional materials and may have been embedded with Hotfile download links - Hotfile should have understood the availability of copyrighted content. (Yeh Decl. Ex. 35 (DE 324-3).) In fact, Hotfile had several runins with affiliates regarding piracy. In one internal discussion, for example, an employee named "Andrei" reached out to Titov about an affiliate site called "PlanetSuzy" that was "converting well" but had somehow strained its relationship with Hotfile. Titov responded that "it must not appear in any way that we pay for advertising on a pornography site, where piracy activity prospers." (Yeh. Decl. Ex. 104 (DE 288-116 (filed under seal); DE 324-17).) While Hotfile suggests that the document shows its unwillingness to deal with infringers, the Studios provide evidence that "Hotfile most recently paid this affiliate during the period spanning January 16, 2012 through January 22, 2012... suggesting that Hotfile is continuing to make payments to this website today." (Foster Decl. \'b6 56 (DE 286 (filed under seal); DE 325-17).)\
The Studios also point to other Hotfile communications with affiliates. Instructions on Hotfile's system addressed to its affiliates stated that third-party site owners can get a commission equal to five percent of all premium [*7] accounts they sell, so those third-parties should "[p]ost interesting download links" in order to "earn big money." (Yeh Decl. Ex. 57 (DE 324-11) (emphasis added).) Other instructions to affiliates suggest uploading "files only if you inten[d] to promote them." (Yeh Decl. Ex. 59 (DE 324-11).) And, around the time of Hotfile's founding, someone affiliated with Hotfile, Andrew lanakov, solicited affiliates by posting on a website that "[o]ur goal is to reach people who are interested in this kind of business, and to find good uploaders... uploading some stuff - mp3, videos, applications, games on our file host and spread these links over... forums where download links are posted (to games, applications and so on)." (Yeh Decl. Ex. 60 (DE 324-12).)\
Apart from affiliates, evidence of similar communications exists between Hotfile and its uploading and downloading users. One user seeking technical assistance, for instance, stated that "im a premium user n im trying to download from the below link but after clicking download button, page not found appears http://hotfile.com/dl/8651708/ cad2aa3/Despicable.Me.2010.720p.BRRip.XViD.AC3-FLAWL3SS.part6rar.html." (Yeh Decl. Ex. 54 (DE 288-31 (filed under seal); DE 324-11).) Someone at Hotfile apparently responded with download instructions. The Studios contend that the file name identified above should have alerted Hotfile to the fact that a user was attempting to illegally download a portion of the popular movie Despicable Me. Beyond this example, the evidence shows that whenever Hotfile was contacted by users, the title of the file last accessed by that user was revealed.\
In another document, a Hotfile user complained that he was unable to export files that had been uploaded from Hotfile to other services because those services "wrote me that all my files are BLACKLISTED." (Yeh. Decl. Ex. 1 (Titov Dep.) at 719:2-21. (DE 288-3 (filed under seal); DE 324-2).) Someone at Hotfile responded that "[s]ince the specific value is identical to a value marked illegal in our system, uploads are denied. We suggest to contact your hoster in this matter. Unfortunately, due to security and legal matters, the blockage of the value cannot be lifted." (Id. (emphasis added).) And Titov commented in an internal e-mail that "we generally do not support transferring files from our system out and that is not a problem that we need to give much consideration." (Id. at 721:4-10.) In this regard, Hotfile argues that the files were non-transferrable for reasons independent of copyright; they were essentially blank files. But the Studios rejoin that the inference to be drawn is that Hotfile had notice that the user's files were infringing because they had been blocked by the other service.\
Similarly, one portion of Hotfile's website allowed users to test whether a Hotfile link was operational. According to a screen shot, Hotfile provided the instructional example of " http://hotfile.com//dl/182987/c2d67b8/PCD.DollDomination.2009.rar.html. "; (Yeh Decl. Ex. 44 (DE 324-11).) The Studios contend that the link used as an illustration contained an album by "The Pussycat Dolls" called "Doll Domination" and that other copyrighted works were used in other tutorials illustrating Hotfile's functions. Hotfile argues that [*8] even if the file contained what the Studios assert it contained, this particular band authorizes certain works for online distribution, as one court has recognized. See UMG Recordings, Inc. v. Veoh Networks, Inc., 620 F. Supp. 2d 1081 (C.D. Cal. 2008) (concluding that the defendant network did not have actual knowledge of infringing material where it knew that works by particular artists were available for download since they were uploaded by artists themselves, such as The Pussycat Dolls).\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb108\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 D. Additional Facts Relevant to Hotfile's DMCA Defense\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 As explained more fully below, Section 512 of the DMCA confers immunity "from all monetary relief" on Internet service providers that meet certain criteria with regard to storing infringing material and making it accessible. Principally, with respect to the network at issue here, a requirement for eligibility contained in Section 512(i) along with several other requisites contained in Section 512(c) mandate: that the defendant has a policy, reasonably implemented, for terminating repeat infringers; that it is a qualified service provider; that it has properly registered a DMCA agent; that it does not have actual or "red flag" knowledge of the infringing nature of files stored on its system; that it takes down files that are the subject of an infringement notice; that it does not receive a direct financial benefit from the alleged infringing activity; that it does not have the practical ability to control the alleged infringements; and that it accommodates and does not interfere with standard technical measures used to protect content. Notably, the statute does not focus on the general characteristics of the network, does not require affirmative action to police content, and does not preclude a grant of immunity even if the operator knew or should have known of infringement generally. The parties' motions in this case concern in part whether Hotfile has met those requirements and, as a result, whether Hotfile became eligible for safe harbor protection at any point.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb108\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 1. Infringement Notices and Hotfile's Repeat Infringer Policy\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Under the DMCA, Internet service providers must reasonably implement a policy designed to terminate users identified as repeat infringers. To that end, since May 2010, Hotfile has provided its users with notice of a repeat infringement policy through the terms of service provided on its website. (Yeh. Decl. Ex. 1 (Titov Dep.) at 279:1-4 (DE 324-2).) That policy states that Hotfile "discontinue[s] service to users who repeatedly make such content available or otherwise violate HotFile's Terms of Service. Please do not abuse the HotFile service by using it to distribute materials to which you do not have the rights." (Titov Decl. \'b6\'b6 17-19 (DE 321-1).) Prior to that time, Hotfile had warned users that "[s]ervices of Hotfile can be used in legitimate objectives. Transmission, distribution, or storage of any materials that violate laws is forbidden. This includes without restriction patented materials, copyright laws, trademarks, commercial secrets and other intellectual property rights." ( Id. \'b6 12.) It had also posted an e-mail address [*9] on its website - abuse@hotfile.com - that the public could use to alert Hotfile of infringement. Although the policies essentially ask users not to engage in misconduct and warn that they may be excluded from using Hotfile, they are notably silent as to what criteria Hotfile would consider in terminating repeat infringers and what efforts it would undertake in doing so. It is undisputed that Hotfile terminated only approximately 43 users up to the filing of the Complaint.\
It is clear from the record that Hotfile's repeat infringer policy was not tied to notices of infringement it received from copyright owners under the DMCA. 7  By the time this Complaint was filed, for instance, ten million such notices had been sent to the company with respect to links to files available on its system. (Foster Decl. \'b6 25 (DE 325-17) (discussing data produced by Hotfile).) Both sides agree that those notices correspond to approximately eight million unique files. ( Id.; Titov Decl. \'b6 26 (DE 396-1).)\
Hotfile acknowledges that it made no connection between infringement notices and acts of infringement. Hotfile explains that it did not track the notices and did not base its policy on how many notices were associated with certain users (such as by "flagging" them). (Yeh. Decl. Ex. 1 (Titov Dep.) at 283:24-285:15 (DE 324-2).) Titov said as much at his deposition, acknowledging that when Hotfile received a DMCA notice of infringement, it did not record which user it corresponded to: \
Q. Prior to the filing of this Complaint, when Hotfile received a DMCA notice from a copyright owner, did Hotfile attempt to identify the user who had uploaded the offending file?\
MR. THOMPSON: Objection, overbroad.\
A. I don't believe that would be the case most of the time. But again, on discretion, employees could investigate further.\
* * *\
Q. ... . Absent a request, a specific request by a copyright owner, prior to the filing of this action, did Hotfile have a practice of identifying the user who had uploaded files identified as infringing on DMCA notices?\
MR. THOMPSON: Objection. Overbroad, asked and answered.\
A. I won't say "specific request," but if a copyright holder would raise some kind of concern that I - I think can be - can be summarized, again, a discretion, identification could be made.\
BY MR. FABRIZIO:\
Q. Okay. My question, though, is without a request from a copyright owner, when Hotfile received a DMCA notice, did Hotfile, as a matter of practice, identify the user who had uploaded the offending file?\
MR. THOMPSON: Objection. Asked and answered.\
A. I don't believe so.
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 (Yeh. Decl. Ex. 1 (Titov Dep.) at 281:10-282:15 (DE 324-2).) While Hotfile did not track such notices, Titov, as the designated corporate Rule 30(b)(6) representative regarding Hotfile's electronically stored information, testified that Hotfile knows the user identity for every upload and that it would have been a "trivial task" to extract user identities from infringement notices. (Yeh Decl. Ex. 2 (Titov ESI Dep.) at 51:23-52:4 (DE 288-4 (filed under seal); DE 324-2).) In sum, prior to this action, whether a user was the subject of one notice or 300 notices, Hotfile acted no differently in terms of investigating [*10] possible infringement.\
Instead, in its briefs, Hotfile credits a system of "manual review" and "discretion" for the termination of 43 users. However, the Studios' evidence demonstrates that Hotfile was motivated not by policy, but by the threat of litigation. Of those 43 terminations, 33 were due to a court's temporary restraining order issued in connection with litigation initiated by a pornography producer called "Liberty Media." (Yeh. Decl. Ex. 1 (Titov Dep.) at 299:1-24 (DE 288-2 (filed under seal); DE 324-2).) Others were apparently terminated when Hotfile or its affiliated entities received litigation threats from copyright holders. (See, e.g., id. at 306:12-307:10 (acknowledging that Hotfile terminated a user after a copyright owner complained of Hotfile's failure to respond to DMCA notices and threatening to hold Hotfile liable for "a huge loss to my company").) Thus, while Hotfile claims to have acted to "terminate, and stop payments to accounts of users with numerous complaints at content owners' request," it has failed to cite evidence to support the proposition, explain the conditions that led it to target or terminate users, or rebut the Studios' account of user termination only by litigation. (See Titov Decl. \'b6 34 (stating only that "Hotfile did review accounts of users with numerous complaints at the request of content owners, did perform manual reviews of those accounts, did terminate those accounts, and did stop payments") (DE 342-2 (filed under seal); DE 396-1).)\
Similarly, Hotfile's public claims about its repeat infringer policy appear to be unfounded. For example, it purported to have a policy of automatically removing users that had accumulated two "strikes," based on DMCA notices; the policy was discussed in internal e-mails. (See Liebnitz Ex. 29 (DE 346-31) at HF02835779 ("If user's files were reported two times as copyright abuse we delete user account.").) Hotfile also reported to copyright holders that it acted upon the notices of infringement that it received, but vetted them manually to ensure that the users it deleted had in fact infringed. ( Id.) Likewise, internal documents suggest that Hotfile had a "system in place that flags the users [with] numerous infringing [Complaints]" and that the corporation "manually review[ed] those accounts," deleted them, and seized funds they have received from their affiliate program. (Yeh. Decl. Ex. 1 (Titov Dep.) at 286:6-18 (DE 288-2 (filed under seal); DE 324-2).)\
In his deposition, Titov acknowledged that those representations were untrue. (See, e.g., Yeh. Decl. Ex. 1 (Titov Dep.) at 286:6-289:4 (DE 324-2).) Indeed, had Hotfile paid attention to the DMCA notices, it would have known that by the time of the Complaint, 24,790 users had accumulated more than three notices; half of those had more than ten notices; half again had 25 notices; 1,217 had 100 notices; and 61 had more than 300 notices. (Foster Decl. \'b6\'b6 42-52 & Ex. D. (DE 286 (filed under seal); DE 325-17).) Moreover, documents produced in the litigation support the conclusion that, prior to the filing of the Complaint, Hotfile lacked any meaningful policy to combat infringement. Although it is the subject of a motion [*11] to strike on the grounds of hearsay and authenticity, one document purports to show a conversation thread in which a Hotfile user observes in an online forum that "[i]f any of you[r] files are reported by a real representative (see http://hotfile.com/reportabuse.html ), then the file will be deleted, but your account will not be removed, and you will not be suspended from hotfile.com." (Yeh. Decl. Ex. 22 (DE 288-25 (filed under seal); DE 324-2).) Similarly, another user who operated a site with Hotfile links, which the Studios suggest was "blatantly" infringing, was suspended but allegedly had his account restored after contacting Hotfile. (Yeh. Decl. Ex. 100 (DE 288-112 (filed under seal); DE 324-16).) The Studios' expert calculated that this particular user had uploaded nearly 30 thousand files to Hotfile and received but had also accumulated 9,254 takedown notices. (Foster Decl. \'b6 54 (DE 286 (filed under seal); DE 325-17).) To the extent that they may be admissible at trial, these documents give substance to the Studios' assertions.\
Like that user, the evidence produced shows that the subjects of the notices formed a discreet group of problematic users. While those who were the subject of more than three infringement notices made up less than one percent of all of Hotfile's users, 8  they were responsible for posting 50 million files (15.6 million of which were subsequently the subject of a takedown notice or removed for infringement), representing 44 percent of all files ever uploaded to Hotfile. (Foster Decl. \'b6 41 (DE 286 (filed under seal); DE 325-17).) Those same files were downloaded nearly 1.5 billion times, representing roughly half of all downloads ever from Hotfile. ( Id.) ( Id.) In turn, the conversion rate evidence shows that Hotfile earned large sums from new premium users. Significantly, a snapshot taken by the Studios showed that their files accounted for one percent of the files on Hotfile, or 945,611 files. With regard to downloads, however, ten percent of files downloaded from Hotfile (according to the Studios' download study) were owned or controlled by the Studios.\
While Hotfile's efforts to control infringers' activity appears to have been ineffective (whatever its policy might have been), Hotfile adopted a "revamped repeat infringer policy" immediately after this litigation began. The new policy focuses on "three strikes" - terminating and banning users who receive three DMCA notices of claimed infringement or Special Rightsholder Account requests (discussed below). (Titov Decl. \'b6 33 (DE 321-1).) Hotfile now tracks how many times it receives notices of infringement, each of which count as a "strike." ( Id.) This revamped policy led directly to the termination of 444 of its 500 highest-paid affiliates, although thousands of smaller affiliates were not terminated. (Titov Decl. \'b6 30 (DE 396-1).) Ultimately, Hotfile terminated 22,447 users within months of the filing of the Complaint. (Titov Decl. \'b6\'b6 34, 37 (DE 342-1 (filed under seal); DE 396-1).) Hotfile cites this evidence in support of its argument that it is now DMCA compliant, while the Studios use the evidence to show how rampant and unchecked user activity had been. And Hotfile [*12] points out that the number of users removed is, in relative terms, a small number.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb108\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 2. DMCA Agent Registration\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Another requirement of DMCA protection is that a registered agent be designated to receive infringement notices. At least as far back as April 24, 2009, Hotfile maintained an e-mail address posted on its website for the public to report illegitimate or illegal user activity. At that time, the website explained to users that "[t]o exercise your DMCA rights, your Proper DMCA Notice must be sent to Designated Agent of hotfile.com to email: abuse@hotfile.com... When a Proper DMCA notification is received by Designated Agent, or when hotfile.com becomes aware that copyrights are infringed, it will remove or disable access to infringing materials as soon as possible." (Titov Decl. \'b6 15 (DE 321-1).) Hotfile formally registered a DMCA agent with the Copyright Office in December 2009, a fact that is undisputed. (Titov Decl. \'b6 16 (DE 321-1).) Thereafter, in May 2010, it posted a policy expressly incorporating the DMCA, informing users of its repeat infringer policy and the contact information for its designated agent. (Gupta Decl. Ex. 6 (Warner Interrog. Resps.) (DE 275-4 (filed under seal); DE 320-7).) It is further undisputed that the agent address provided by Hotfile was a post office box, which the Studios contend fails to comply with the statute.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb108\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 3. Other Infringement Countermeasures\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 In addition to targeting repeat infringers' accounts, Hotfile makes much of other countermeasures it has put into place, largely after this litigation began. For instance, Titov stated that Hotfile's current practice is to remove individual files within 48 hours of receiving a notice, which he believes Hotfile does 95% of the time. (Titov Decl. \'b6 19 (DE 321-1).) The Studios do not dispute that since February 2011, Hotfile has adhered to this practice, although the Studios have submitted documents suggesting that in some instances, Hotfile might not have always done so.\
In August 2009, Hotfile implemented a Special Rightsholder Account ("SRA") program after receiving a request for a "takedown tool" from Plaintiff Warner. (Titov Decl. \'b6 20 (DE 321-1).). The program, which gives rise to Hotfile's counterclaim against Warner, allows trusted content owners who attest that they own rights to protected works to have access to Hotfile's system. This is a much quicker alternative than the user termination prompted by a DMCA-compliant infringement notice. Indeed, the parties have stipulated that notifications by the Studios through the SRA program have the effect of notices of infringement for purposes of the DMCA. (DE 151, at 2 ("Warner's notifications by means of Hotfile's SRA are (and have the effect of) notifications of claimed infringement to Hotfile's designated agent under 17 U.S.C. \'a7 512(c)(3)(A), and are therefore subject to 17 U.S.C. \'a7 512(f).").) Through an interface provided by Hotfile, owners are permitted to identify and automatically remove offending links without any action by Hotfile. According to record evidence, at least one of the Studios, Warner, has participated in this program.\
Finally, Hotfile now actively polices [*13] files on its network, principally through advanced filtering technology. Video fingerprinting implemented in September 2011 is capable of identifying copyrighted content, which Hotfile claims to then block. (Titov Decl. \'b6 35 (DE 321-1).) Hotfile has also used so-called "hashing technology" (possibly since August 2009  9 ) to remove identical copies of files once one is found to be infringing. This is a revision of the "master file policy" - something sharply criticized by the Studios - in which Hotfile saved server space by maintaining only one copy of identical files uploaded by different users. Formerly, when Hotfile received a claim of infringement, it disabled any offending links but did not actually remove the file from the server, thus leaving it accessible for download with a different link. And finally, Hotfile is employing other video and audio filtering technology that identifies files with characteristics matching content registered by copyright owners, which Hotfile then blocks. It is unclear what impact these technologies have had in blocking access to infringing files that were already available at the time the Complaint was filed. But, according to Hotfile, they have two significant, remedial outcomes: (1) Hotfile now removes all infringing files to the extent that its sophisticated technology can identify them; and (2) the low percentage of files currently identified and blocked (in the range of two to four percent in February 2012) demonstrates that Hotfile is no longer used to share infringing files. (See Gupta Decl. Ex. 38 (DE 321-39).)\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb108\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 E. Corporate History and Titov's Involvement\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 The Studios' last claim is against Titov individually because of his participation in, and ability to benefit from, the infringing activity present on Hotfile's network. In particular, paragraph 45 of the Complaint states that Titov adopted an infringement-reliant business model; designed the aforementioned affiliate program that promotes infringement and paid infringing users; planned technological features that both frustrated copyright enforcement and failed to prevent infringement by users; managed Hotfile's operations; and operated related businesses to evade liability. While Hotfile makes much of the fact that the Studios have been unable to prove up all of these allegations, it is more significant that several of them are actually supported by the evidence produced in discovery.\
As background, Hotfile is the successor to a business venture Although it is unclear how Titov first became involved with or what exactly the company was formed to do, it is undisputed that Titov performed software programing, search engine optimization and server administration for the company. At some point, devised the idea for an online file hosting company based on a competitor in the market, Rapidshare. Thus, provided the necessary start-up capital for Hotfile Corp. Titov was approached because of his technical expertise and prior web-hosting experience; he joined them in founding Hotfile in Fall 2008. Hotfile [*14] acknowledges that the "researched the competition in this space to learn about the functionalities of other services" and agreed on Hotfile's business model. They then staffed the company almost entirely with employees, who continue to work for Hotfile. (Yeh. Decl. Ex. 1 (Titov Dep.) at 105:5-7 (DE 288-1 (filed under seal); DE 324-2).)\
The evidence shows that Titov's primary role at Hotfile is as a technical engineer, responsible for implementing business ideas and functions. For instance, the parties agree that Titov wrote the source code that runs Hotfile's website. (Yeh. Decl. Ex. 1 (Titov Dep.) at 497:3-7 (DE 288-2 (filed under seal); DE 324-2) (acknowledging writing between 50 and 70 percent of the source code); Yeh Decl. Ex. 88 (Titov Decl.) at \'b6 6 (DE 288-95 (filed under seal); DE 324-15) ("I wrote the source code for Hotfile's website with the assistance of one other person. We designed the source code from scratch. My conservative estimate is that more than 1,000 hours have been spent developing the source code.").) Titov also provides "guidance" to employees and oversees aspects of their work for Hotfile. ( Id. at 132:8-20 ("I'm not sure that I do in fact supervise them but... to the extent they need some guidance and understanding of the technical parts of... our system, yes we do communicate, and - yes, I would say that I have certain authority over them.").)\
The evidence demonstrates that Titov actively participates in the management of Hotfile and in decision-making. Titov testified that Hotfile's shareholders manage Hotfile jointly and, while the governance procedures have not always been formal, they agree on major decisions such as the implementation of Hotfile's affiliate program. (Yeh. Decl. Ex. 1 (Titov Dep.) at 597:11-598:22 (DE 324) (stating that "major issues" were put to a vote but were not opposed).) Additionally, Titov acknowledged that he received power of attorney to act on behalf of the corporation "as a manager of the company when [such] acts are authorized by other shareholders." (Yeh. Decl. Ex. 1 (Titov Dep.) at 79:23-80:1; 82:5-12 (DE 288-1 (filed under seal); DE 324-2).)\
Nonetheless, it is undisputed that Titov does not have the authority to make unilateral decisions regarding important aspects of Hotfile's business or operations. Titov asserts that he was not the originator of certain concepts; for instance, he credits with making the decision to implement the affiliate program. And Titov denies involvement in other aspects crucial to Hotfile's business, such as soliciting new investors, selecting contractors or devising advertising strategies.\
The evidence also shows that, in October 2009, Titov formed a company called Lemuria Communications Inc., a Florida corporation that Hotfile uses to perform web hosting, software maintenance and development. Titov, according to the Defendants, is "the sole owner, manager, and director" of Lemuria. 10  Lemuria, in turn, contracts with to perform some of those services and pays for many of Hotfile's expenses. (Yeh. Decl. Ex. 1 (Titov Dep.) at 38:7-40:10, 106:2-107:14 (DE 288-1 (filed under seal); DE 324-2).)\
Beyond examining Titov's overall responsibilities at Hotfile, the Studios [*15] point to several specific ways that Titov is linked to the infringement at issue. With respect to the affiliate program, which the Studios believe promotes infringement, it is undisputed that Titov provided input on technological feasibility. Moreover, Hotfile has failed to rebut the Studios' assertions that Titov paid affiliates from an account he opened and transferred to Hotfile Ltd., a company that handles most of Hotfile's finances and that he manages. (Titov Reply Decl. \'b6 4 (DE 378-1 (filed under seal); Yeh. Decl. Ex. 1 (Titov Dep.) at 602:9-14 (DE 324-2) ("Yes, there were instances where users were paid by an account opened [in] my name.").) Titov also stated that he was aware of the master file policy, acknowledging that it permitted users to continue to access suspected files even while individual links were disabled. (Yeh. Decl. Ex. 1 (Titov Dep.) at 602:16-604:13 (DE 324-2).) Similarly, given that Hotfile was governed jointly, Titov did not recall opposing Hotfile's key policies, such as how it treated repeat infringers or how it endeavored to remove infringing files.\
Finally, while evidence of Titov's personal involvement in Hotfile's treatment of copyright infringement claims is not extensive, he acknowledged instructing Hotfile employees to ban a user and to "[b]e more strict in stopping these days," after Hotfile was sued by a company called Perfect 10. (Yeh. Decl. Ex. 1 (Titov Dep.) at 317:15-321:10 (DE 288-2 (filed under seal); DE 324-2).) Titov was also responsible for hiring Hotfile's DMCA agent, but he claims that others are responsible for responding to DMCA notices and handling that aspect of Hotfile's operation.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb108\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 F. Facts Relevant to Hotfile's Counterclaim\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Separately, Warner moves for summary judgment on a 17-page counterclaim filed by Hotfile relating to 890 DMCA takedown notices that Warner submitted to Hotfile. (DE 161-4.) In these notices, Warner typically stated "under penalty of perjury" that it was "the owner or authorized legal representative of the owner of copyrights" and that it had "a good faith belief that use of this material is not authorized by the copyright owner, the copyright owner's agent, or the law." Since April 2009, Warner has participated in Hotfile's SRA program, in which the parties agree that deletions have the same legal effect as takedown notices.\
The counterclaim asserts that the works at issue were mistakenly identified as infringing and that Warner violated 17 U.S.C. \'a7 512(f) by making such knowing and material misrepresentations and causing injury to Hotfile. Warner contends that, while mistakes were made, they were not made knowingly and are not the type of egregious violations contemplated by the statute; that there were few resulting damages to Hotfile; and that Hotfile's motive in pursuing the claim is to demonstrate how difficult it can be for anyone to identify and prevent infringement, which helps Hotfile illustrate its defense to the main infringement claims.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb108\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 1. Warner's Review Process\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Many of Hotfile's contentions concern the sufficiency of the review process Warner implemented to identify and notice particular files. [*16] As explained by Warner's head of anti-piracy operations, David Kaplan, Warner devotes the efforts of employees to online anti-piracy enforcement, hires third-party vendors, and, notably, \
In the automated review process, Warner's employees first determine that a site is used for Internet piracy. (Kaplan Decl. \'b6 6 (DE 301-6).) ( Id. \'b6 8.)\
For each link determined to contain infringing content, Warner sends infringement notices.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb108\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 2. Prevalence and Knowledge of Errors\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Overall, while the evidence shows that Warner's system has many commendable characteristics, it also reveals some areas for improvement. On one hand, Warner applies the system only to sites it believes to be devoted to infringing content, takes care in uses employees to tailor search terms, , reviews its practices on a continuous basis, conducts spot checks, (Kaplan Decl. \'b6\'b6 15-16 (DE 301-6).) Warner contends that it "has designed its system to err on the side of conservatism, even if that results in fewer infringing files being identified, in order to avoid errors," and professes great confidence in the reliability of its enforcement. ( Id. \'b6 6.) It also repeatedly asserts that its methodology and system features are common in its industry.\
On the other hand, Warner readily admits that mistakes do occur, and Hotfile has identified characteristics that may be responsible for engendering those mistakes. For example, Warner's staff did not download or review any Hotfile content before marking it for removal. (Thompson Decl. Ex. 4 (Kaplan Dep.) at 43:12-44:14 (DE 354-5).)  11  Indeed, its search process before issuing a takedown notice. a determination whether there were legal uses for the files.\
The parties have proffered limited statistical and anecdotal evidence about how this translates to the effectiveness of Warner's system. For its part, Warner avers that it sent 400,000 takedown notices to Hotfile prior to this lawsuit without receiving any counternotices from Hotfile or its users, suggesting that the mistakes were not apparent or significant enough to contest. (See Kaplan Decl. \'b6 14 (DE 301-6).) Moreover, according to Warner, the fact that only 890 erroneous files have been identified by Hotfile after it undertook the most scrupulous review of those takedown notices suggests a low error rate, well under one percent, by a simple calculation.\
Warner goes further, suggesting that the actual number of mistaken notices sent to Hotfile numbers around 600, not 890. Showing the difficulty attendant to identifying infringing content, the evidence shows that 19 of the files challenged by Hotfile in the counterclaim are in fact owned by Warner. Another 271 of the files undisputedly belong to an entity, Electronic Arts, Inc., that gave Warner permission - albeit, apparently after-the-fact - to request removal of the files. (See Hopkins Decl. \'b6 9 (DE 301-7) (Electronic Arts, Inc. executive stating that the company "retroactively authorizes Warner having sent takedown notices" on its behalf).) And it is also undisputed that of the 890 files listed, 24 are duplicative. This further supports the view that Warner's actual error [*17] rate, in general and with respect to its search of Hotfile's website in particular, is small.\
In response, Hotfile points to other evidence that Warner's error rate may actually be higher, the most important being an internal discussion between Warner employees in August 2011. Thus, drawing inferences in favor of Hotfile, Warner employees might have known of an error rate as high as during the time that it was identifying the files identified in the counterclaim.\
Hotfile also points to instances of anecdotal errors to show how unsound Warner's search practices might have been. For example, (Thompson Decl. Ex. 4 (Kaplan Dep.) at 16:10-17:4 (DE 354-5).) Warner also apparently (Thompson Decl. Ex. 5 (DE 304-1 (filed under seal); DE 354-6).) A search for the (Thompson Decl. Ex. 16 (DE 304-6 (filed under seal); DE 354-17).) And (Thompson Decl. Ex. 18 (DE 304-6 (filed under seal); DE 354-19).)\
Moreover, Warner admits that on linking sites, it (Thompson Decl. Ex. 4 (Kaplan Dep.) at 232:23-233:7 (DE 304-1 (filed under seal); DE 354-5).) Thus, it deleted one of the counterclaim files because it Hotfile claims that en masse deletion was Warner's typical practice and extends beyond this example.\
In addition, Hotfile has also proffered evidence of an illicit motive on Warner's part. For example, Warner liberally removed what is by all indications a popular and innocuous free software program mentioned at the outset of this decision, JDownloader, which was created by a company called "Appwork GmbH" and which Warner does not own or have rights to. In one instance, Warner targeted the program because it (Thompson Decl. Ex. 4 (Kaplan Dep.) at 225:13-226:12 (DE 304-1 (filed under seal); DE 354-5).) \
Warner's efforts to police were at times overzealous and overreaching. In the case of JDownloader, its anti-piracy executive stated that As discussed above, Warner took liberties in removing content owned by other copyright holders, such as Electronic Arts, only obtaining permission to do so later in an "antipiracy partnership." In the main summary judgment briefing, the Studios show that the most popular content on Hotfile is actually software that is illegal to distribute but that does not include the Studios' works. And, in its motion, Warner points out that Hotfile is unable to recover for the vast majority of the files Warner wrongfully removed. These facts demonstrate that Warner's goals may have been broader than preventing infringement of its own works in the manner prescribed by Section 512(c) .\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb108\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 3. Evidence of Damages\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Assuming Warner's actions were unauthorized, Warner contends that Hotfile is unable to show a cognizable injury from the takedown notices identified in the counterclaim. First, Warner has established that many of the files did not cause Hotfile to wrongfully terminate any paying users. At least 28 of the files were noticed before Hotfile implemented a repeat infringer policy based on strikes, meaning that Hotfile took no action when it received those notices. Similarly, nine files wrongfully noticed after Hotfile implemented its three-strikes policy in February 2011 did not result in user termination, [*18] since those users never accumulated more than three strikes. Additionally, 53 files were posted by users who would have accumulated three or more strikes without counting the files from the counterclaim, although Hotfile questions whether some of those notifications were DMCA-compliant. And finally, nine remaining files correspond to six users, none of whom was a subscribing member. These facts are not otherwise subject to dispute.\
Warner has also retained an expert, Dr. Zebrak, who concluded that 477 of the files - if they did not belong to Warner - "highly likely" infringed others' copyrights and had no business being on Hotfile's system. This portion of Dr. Zebrak's testimony is challenged by Hotfile, which points out that the expert acknowledged he did not contact those owners to find out whether distribution on Hotfile was truly unauthorized. (Zebrak Decl. \'b6 16 (DE 201-1); Thompson Decl. Ex. 32 (Zebrak Dep.) at 319:3-22 (DE 354-33).) It is well-established that a lack of authorization is required to prove a claim of copyright infringement. See Morley Music Co. v. Cafe Cont'l, Inc., 777 F. Supp. 1579, 1582 (S.D. Fla. 1991) (citations omitted). There is no compelling evidence one way or the other establishing these files' copyright status.\
But Hotfile's main assertion is that Warner's focus wrongly assumes that Hotfile's lost revenue could only have come from terminated users' subscription fees. Instead, Hotfile points out that its business model is driven by the availability of content, which Warner's actions have interfered with. Hotfile has provided evidence that the files in the counterclaim, even excluding the files identified as infringing by Dr. Zebrak, were downloaded 278,319 times and earned Hotfile in premium subscriptions from 51 new user accounts. (Titov Decl. \'b6\'b6 7-8 (DE 304-10 (filed under seal); DE 352-1).) The JDownloader program in particular was deleted eight times by Warner, but had been downloaded a total of 150,028 times and resulted in 42 premium subscriptions, earning for Hotfile. (Titov Decl. \'b6\'b6 7-8 (DE 304-10 (filed under seal); DE 352-1).) And, Warner's own expert acknowledged that the false notices caused one JDownloader distributor to be briefly suspended, apparently preventing downloads of his files for two days. It is unclear whether the files deleted were ever replaced. (Foster Reply Decl. \'b6 3 (DE 360-1 (filed under seal); DE 409-9).)\
Hotfile's expert, Dr, Matthew R. Lynde, estimates that Hotfile's total damages range from . (Thompson Decl. Ex. 34 (Lynde Decl.) at \'b6 9 (DE 304-7 (filed under seal); DE 354-35); Yeh. Decl. Ex. 1 (Lynde Dep.) at 282:5-25 (DE 301-10).) He opines on a variety of ways in which Hotfile could have been harmed, including diminishing payments to affiliates, decreasing incentive for users to pay for premium access, and harm to Hotfile's business reputation and goodwill. His opinion associates an observed decrease in revenue with increased use of takedowns by Warner.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb108\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 II. DISCUSSION\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 The parties have moved for summary judgment on various aspects of the claims and defenses raised in this litigation. Under Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 56 , summary judgment is appropriate if, after discovery, "the pleadings, depositions, [*19] answers to interrogatories, affidavits and admissions on file, together with the affidavits, show that there is no genuine issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to a judgment as a matter of law." Celotex Corp. v. Catrett, 477 U.S. 317, 322 (1986) (quoting Fed. R. Civ. P. 56(c) ). "An issue of fact is 'material' if, under the applicable substantive law, it might affect the outcome of the case." Hickson Corp. v. N. Crossarm Co., Inc., 357 F.3d 1256, 1259-60 (11th Cir. 2004) (citations omitted). "An issue of fact is 'genuine' if the record taken as a whole could lead a rational trier of fact to find for the nonmoving party."  Id. at 1260 (citations omitted). "The moving party bears the initial burden of establishing the nonexistence of a triable fact issue." Cont'l Cas. Co. v. Wendt, 205 F.3d 1258, 1261 (11th Cir. 2000) (citing Celotex Corp., 477 U.S. at 317 ). In ruling on summary judgment, the evidence and reasonable inferences are construed in the light most favorable to the non-movant. Adickes v. S.H. Kress & Co., 398 U.S. 144, 157 (1970); Jackson v. BellSouth Telecomms., 372 F.3d 1250, 1280 (11th Cir. 2004).\
If the movant establishes the absence of a genuine issue of material fact, the nonmoving party must "go beyond the pleadings and by her own affidavits or by the 'depositions, answers to interrogatories, and admissions on file' designate 'specific facts showing that there is a genuine issue for trial." Celotex, 477 U.S. at 324 (quoting Fed. R. Civ. P. 56(c) ). Thus, "[i]f the non-movant... fails to adduce evidence which would be sufficient... to support a jury finding for the non-movant, summary judgment may be granted." Brooks v. Blue Cross & Blue Shield of Fla., Inc., 116 F.3d 1364, 1370 (11th Cir. 1997) (citation omitted). However, "if factual issues are present, the Court must deny the motion and proceed to trial." Warrior Tombigbee Transp. Co. v. M/V Nan Fung, 695 F.2d 1294, 1296 (11th Cir. 1983) (citations omitted).\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb108\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 A. DMCA Defense\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 The parties agree that the proper starting point for the Court's analysis is whether Hotfile is entitled to DMCA protection, given its ability to absolve Hotfile of liability for secondary copyright infringement. See17 U.S.C. \'a7 512(c)(1) (stating that if the safe harbor requirements are met, "[a] service provider shall not be liable for monetary relief, or, except as provided in subsection (j) , for injunctive or other equitable relief, for infringement of copyright by reason of the storage at the direction of a user of material that resides on a system or network controlled or operated by or for the service provider."); S. Rep. No. 105-190 (1998) at 64, reprinted in 1998 U.S.C.C.A.N. at 639 (stating that the safe harbor "protect[s] qualifying service providers from liability for all monetary relief for direct, vicarious and contributory infringement" as well as injunctive relief). As recounted in detail in Viacom, Congress enacted the DMCA in 1998 to provide liability safe harbors for service providers that operate or control networks through which users store copyrighted digital works if those providers meet certain specified criteria. 676 F.3d at 26-27 (citing 17 U.S.C. \'a7 512(a)-(d) and legislative history). The Studios contend that Hotfile is not entitled to safe harbor protection as a matter of law, while Hotfile asks for a determination that it is not liable for acts of infringement that took place after the filing of the Complaint on February 18, 2011.\
Generally, the advances of the Internet and digital technology make possible replication and dissemination of creative [*20] works on an astonishing scale. S. Rep. No. 105-190 (1998) at 8 (noting "the ease with which digital works can be copied and distributed worldwide virtually instantaneously"). In that regard, the DMCA was meant to foster the growth of the Internet while protecting the rights of copyright holders and encouraging Internet entities' efforts to offer valuable on-line services, which on occasion might be infringing under copyright law. Id.; Realnetworks, Inc. v. DVD Copy Control Ass'n, 641 F. Supp. 2d 913, 943 (N.D. Cal. 2003) ("The DMCA represents Congress' attempt at a balance to preserve ownership rights protection for companies and artists in the face of the modern reality of a digital world with an increasingly technologically-savvy population."). As Hotfile recognized at oral argument, without the immunity conferred by the DMCA safe harbor provisions, Internet businesses could otherwise be subject to ruinous liability under common law principles of secondary infringement.\
A party asserting DMCA's safe harbor as an affirmative defense to a claim of copyright infringement has the burden of demonstrating entitlement to its protections. See ALS Scan, Inc. v. RemarQ Communities., Inc., 239 F.3d 619, 625 (4th Cir. 2001) (stating that entitlement to immunity under the DMCA is not "presumptive" but applies to service providers that prove they meet certain criteria); see also Blue Cross & Blue Shield of Ala. v. Weitz, 913 F.2d 1544, 1552 (11th Cir. 1990) (discussing burden of proof as to a statute of limitations defense). Nonetheless, in many instances, the DMCA serves to relieve service providers of burdens they might otherwise shoulder, even transferring them to the copyright owner. See, e.g., UMG Records, Inc. v. Shelter Capital Partners LLC, 718 F.3d 1006 (9th Cir. 2013) ("Congress made a considered policy determination that the 'DMCA notification procedures [would] place the burden of policing copyright infringement - identifying the potentially infringing material and adequately documenting infringement - squarely on the owners of the copyright.'" (quoting Perfect 10, Inc. v. CCBill LLC, 488 F.3d 1102, 1113 (9th Cir. 2007))). In this regard, courts have counseled that the advantages of the DMCA should be viewed capaciously. See Flava Works v. Gunter, 689 F.3d 754, 758 (7th Cir. 2012). Although an affirmative defense, the DMCA has often been construed in favor of service providers, requiring relatively little effort by their operations to maintain immunity.\
Hotfile asserts that it qualifies for DMCA protection as an Internet service provider that allows information to reside on its system at the direction of its users, which is one of four specified categories recognized by the Act. See17 U.S.C. \'a7 512(c)(1). The parties do not dispute that Hotfile qualifies as a service provider. See id. \'a7 512(k)(1)(A) (defining a "service provider" as "an entity offering the transmission, routing, or providing of connections for digital online communications, between or among points specified by a user, of material of the user's choosing, without modification to the content of the material as sent or received."). The term "storage" has also been broadly interpreted to include displaying or disseminating content that is uploaded to the system's servers at the direction of users, which covers Hotfile's operations. See UMG Recordings, Inc., 620 F. Supp. 2d at 1089-91 (construing statutory language and concluding that Congress [*21] intended a broad application by including the phrase "by reason of," such that the protected infringing conduct need not be limited to an act of storage).\
Section 512 provides that a preliminary condition for eligibility is that the service provider maintain a policy to terminate "repeat infringers." 17 U.S.C. \'a7 512(i)(1)(A). The particular category of service provider that applies to Hotfile imposes four additional requirements: (1) the service provider designates an agent to the United States Copyright Office and to the public through its service; (2) the service provider acts expeditiously to "remove, or disable access to" infringing material it actually knows of or of which it should be aware from "facts or circumstances" showing that "infringing activity is apparent;" (3) the provider has no actual or red flag knowledge of infringing activity; and (4) the provider receives no financial benefit from infringing activity.  Id. \'a7 512(c)(1) . While case law has developed in other parts of the country, construing these provisions is an issue of first impression in this Circuit.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb108\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 1. Repeat Infringer Policy\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 The repeat infringer requirement of Section 512(i) calls for a policy, reasonably implemented, that provides for the termination of a service provider's users in "appropriate circumstances": \
The limitations on liability established by this section shall apply to a service provider only if the service provider... has adopted and reasonably implemented, and informs subscribers and account holders of the service provider's system or network of, a policy that provides for the termination in appropriate circumstances of subscribers and account holders of the service provider's system or network who are repeat infringers.
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 17 U.S.C. \'a7 512(i)(1)(A). Congress, in enacting the DMCA, failed to elaborate upon what it means for a policy to be reasonably implemented. See Perfect 10, Inc. v. CCBill, LLC, 488 F.3d 1102, 1109 (9th Cir. 2007). Thus, in the absence of express statutory language, the Ninth Circuit has prescribed that "an implementation is reasonable if, under 'appropriate circumstances,' the service provider terminates users who repeatedly or blatantly infringe copyright" - a standard that this Court applies. CCBill, LLC, 488 F.3d at 1109 (quoting legislative history).\
Such a policy may take a variety of forms. Id . Notably, "\'a7 512(i) does not require a service provider to decide, ex ante, the specific types of conduct that will merit restricting access to its services." Corbis Corp. v. Amazon.com, Inc., 351 F. Supp. 2d 1090, 1101-02 (W.D. Wash. 2004), rev'd in part on other grounds, Cosmetic Ideas, Inc. v. IAC/Interativecorp., 606 F.3d 612 (9th Cir. 2010). For storage lockers like Hotfile, the focus of the analysis is on uploading users: "users who know they lack authorization and nevertheless upload content to the Internet for the world to experience or copy... are blatant infringers that Internet service providers are obligated to ban from their websites." Capitol Records, Inc. v. MP3tunes, LLC, 821 F. Supp. 2d 627, 637 (S.D.N.Y. 2011).\
In assessing the reasonableness of a defendant's efforts, additional guidance on what constitutes an appropriate policy can be ascertained in the Act's legislative history. For instance, policies should be considered in light of Congress's intention that "those who repeatedly or flagrantly abuse [*22] their access to the Internet through disrespect for the intellectual property rights of others should know that there is a realistic threat of losing that access." UMG Recordings, Inc. v. Veoh Networks, Inc., 665 F. Supp. 2d 1099, 1118 (C.D. Cal. 2009) (quoting legislative history). Service providers granting access to those users should also be given "strong incentives... to prevent their services from becoming safe havens or conduits for known repeat copyright infringers." Perfect 10, Inc. v. Cybernet Ventures, Inc., 213 F. Supp. 2d 1146, 1178 (C.D. Cal. 2002). Yet consonant with other provisions of the DMCA, courts should not construe policies so as to impose affirmative action on the part of the service provider to monitor for infringement. See17 U.S.C. \'a7 512(m); Cybernet Ventures, Inc., 213 F. Supp. 2d at 1176 (interpreting legislative history). As Congress stated: \
The Committee recognizes that there are different degrees of on-line copyright infringement, from the inadvertent and noncommercial, to the willful and commercial. In addition, the Committee does not intend this provision to undermine the principles of new subsection ([m]) or the knowledge standard of new subsection (c) by suggesting that a provider must investigate possible infringements, monitor its service, or make difficult judgments as to whether conduct is or is not infringing. However, those who repeatedly or flagrantly abuse their access to the Internet through disrespect for the intellectual property rights of others should know that there is a realistic threat of losing that access.
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 H.R. Rep. No. 105-551(II) at 61 (1998) (emphasis added).\
The Studios in this action do not contend that Hotfile failed to dictate or publish any policy, but rather that Hotfile failed to reasonably implement it by actually terminating users. Several considerations, taken together, lead the Court to agree. Initially, a reasonable policy must be capable of tracking infringers. Reviewing the holdings of Ellison v. Robertson, 357 F.3d 1072 (9th Cir. 2004) and In re Aimster Copyright Litigation, 334 F.3d 643 (7th Cir. 2003), cert. denied,540 U.S. 1107 (2004), the court in CCBill announced a standard for Section 512(i) in which a service provider must maintain a vehicle to receive notices of potential infringement, design its system so as to be able to ascertain the identity of the users responsible for those files, and make some effort to record infringing users. 488 F.3d at 1110 . 12  Without those threshold functions, service providers are unable to carry out any sort of reasonable policy. For instance, in In re Aimster Copyright Litigation, 252 F. Supp. 2d 634 (N D. Ill. 2002), the district court concluded that whatever policy the defendants might have ostensibly had could not be reasonably implemented because the system's encryption of user information made it "impossible to ascertain which users are transferring which files."  Id. at 659 . The court ruled that the precondition to safe harbor was not met even though the plaintiffs had failed to identify "a single repeat infringer whose access should be terminated." Id .\
In this case, while the statute does not require Hotfile to maintain a perfect policy (or even anything as stringent as the three-strikes policy it eventually implemented), it is apparent that Hotfile effectively did nothing to tie notices to repeat infringers. Titov admitted, and Hotfile does not seriously [*23] dispute, that the corporation had no way to keep track of infringing users based on infringement notices. Hotfile's sole method for terminating its users was its "discretion," which it evidently failed to exercise; it had no technology to record notices and no procedure for dealing with notification. Consequently, it is not too harsh an assessment to conclude that when Hotfile received such notices, it was Hotfile's practice to ignore them rather than act to terminate the users they were associated with. This deliberate disregard is significant.\
The data discussed above - both the number of users who received multiple notices of infringement and the number of users who were terminated after Hotfile implemented a stronger policy - show that Hotfile failed to act when confronted with infringing conduct. 13  Thus, despite receiving over eight million notices for five million users, Hotfile only terminated 43 users before the commencement of this action, for reasons that had no apparent relation to the notices Hotfile received. Most glaringly, there were 61 users who had accumulated more than 300 notices each. As recounted above, those users were particularly prolific, driving traffic to Hotfile's website, receiving money through Hotfile's affiliate program, and generating significant revenue for Hotfile by encouraging users to convert to premium subscriptions.\
In response, Hotfile contends that the DMCA does not mandate action based on infringement notices. On this point, there is some disagreement as to whether such notices equate to knowledge of a user's actual infringement. 14  See, generally, 4-12B M; Nimmer & Nimmer, Copyright \'a7 12B.10[B] (Matthew Bender Rev. Ed. 2013). The court in Corbis Corp., for instance, found that DMCA notices alone are not enough to confer knowledge on a service provider: "Although there may be instances in which two or more DMCA compliant notices make a service provider aware of a user's blatant, repeat infringement, the notices alone do not make the user's activity blatant, or even conclusively determine that the user is an infringer." 351 F. Supp. 2d at 1105 & n.9; see also MP3tunes, LLC, 821 F. Supp. 2d at 637 .\
Yet a subsequent circuit court decision in CCBill suggests a different approach on this issue. That court held that statutorily deficient notices of infringement - in particular, those lacking a declaration from the copyright holder detailing ownership and the material's infringing nature - were an insufficient basis for terminating a user. CCBill, 488 F.3d at 1113 . At the same time, however, it held that the district court erred in failing to consider whether defendants' continued services for websites that were the subject of non-party notifications (which might have conformed with the statute) constituted an unreasonable policy. Id . Thus, the decision suggests that proper notifications, which require "[a] statement that the complaining party has a good faith belief that use of the material in the manner complained of is not authorized by the copyright owner, its agent, or the law," 17 U.S.C. \'a7 512(c)(3)(A)(v), can provide requisite knowledge to defendants. Other [*24] decisions support this reasoning. See UMG Recordings, Inc., 665 F. Supp. 2d at 1116-18 (holding that filtering technology used by the defendant to identify infringing material did not constitute knowledge because, "however beneficial the [filtering] technology is in helping to identify infringing material, it does not meet the standard of reliability and verifiability required by [CC Bill] in order to justify terminating a user's account"); Flava Works, Inc. v. Gunter, No. 10C6517, [2011 ILRC 2323], 2011 WL 3205399 , at *10 (N.D. Ill. July 27, 2011), rev'd on other grounds,689 F.3d 754 (7th Cir. 2012) ("It is true that service providers are not required to police their sites for infringement, but they are required to investigate and respond to notices of infringement - with respect to content and repeat infringers."). As one court observed, CC Bill borrowed the knowledge standard from Section 512(c)(1)(A) , which requires removal of material upon notification of claimed infringement. UMG Recordings, 665 F. Supp. 2d at 1117 ; see also Corbis Corp., 351 F. Supp. 2d at 1107 ("[T]he most powerful evidence of a service provider's knowledge [is an] actual notice of infringement from the copyright holder."); cf. UMG Recordings, Inc., [2013 ILRC 1467], 2013 WL 1092793 , at *10 (stating that the plaintiff's "decision to forgo the DMCA notice protocol stripped it of the most powerful evidence of a service provider's knowledge - actual notice of infringement" (quotation omitted)).\
Aside from infringement notices, however, Hotfile had no alternative method for preventing repeat infringement by its users. Courts often consider the degree of infringement at issue and the defendant's efforts to stop repeat infringers in determining the reasonableness of the policy's implementation. In Corbis Corp., for instance, the defendant had cancelled millions of offending merchant listings, warned such vendors that "repeated violations of the rules may result in 'permanent suspension,'" and ultimately terminated hundreds of vendors. 351 F. Supp. 2d at 1103-05 & n.7. This evidence was sufficient to show that the defendant had meaningfully responded to allegations of copyright infringement and thus, "properly implemented a procedure for addressing copyright complaints and enforcing violations of its policies."  Id. at 1103 . Moreover, the plaintiff was unable to show that the defendant "could have used another, more effective and reasonable" method for preventing terminated users from re-accessing the service.  Id. at 1103-04 . Finally, addressing the "appropriate circumstances" language of the statute, the court concluded that there was insufficient evidence that the defendant had knowledge of blatant infringement - such as user statements about the pirated nature of a product, chat room discussions regarding use of the service for infringing purposes, or characteristics of listings that would give away their infringing nature - that would have required it to terminate user access.  Id. at 1104-05 . Thus, the defendant was entitled to safe harbor protection.\
By contrast, the district court in In re Aimster confronted a policy similar to the one at issue here that warned users not to post infringing content and promised to terminate users who repeatedly violated copyright law. The court discounted [*25] the policy as an "absolute mirage" after evidence showed that the defendants obstructed ways of determining which users were transferring infringing files and, in practice, failed to terminate a single user. In re Aimster, 252 F. Supp. 2d at 658-59 & n.18 (declining safe harbor protection on motion for preliminary injunction). Affirming the district court on appeal, the Seventh Circuit instructed that a "service provider must do what it can reasonably be asked to do to prevent the use of its services by 'repeat infringers.'"  Id. at 655 (citation omitted). In a similar vein, other courts have held that "where a service provider is given sufficient evidence to create actual knowledge of blatant, repeat infringement by particular users, particularly infringement of a willful and commercial nature," it is compelled to act. Cybernet Ventures, Inc., 213 F. Supp. 2d at 1176 (citing legislative history). Still others have held that there are circumstances in which operators must go beyond merely posting a policy in a site's terms of use, as Hotfile did. See Arista Records LLC v. Usenet.com, Inc., 633 F. Supp. 2d 124, 131 (S.D.N.Y. 2009). 15 \
Here, the scale of activity - the notices of infringement and complaints from copyright holders - indicated to Hotfile that a substantial number of blatant repeat infringers made the system a conduit for infringing activity. Yet Hotfile did not act on receipt of DMCA notices and failed to devise any actual policy of dealing with those offenders, even if it publicly asserted otherwise. It has presented no evidence to show that the small number of removals that did occur were for any reason other than threatened litigation or by court order. Indeed, it has been unable to point to a single specific user who was terminated pursuant to its policy of manual review and exercise of "discretion." Documents and statistics indicate that there was never any realistic threat of termination to Hotfile's users, whose activities were protected by the company's indifference to infringement notices. In sum, regardless of official policies forbidding infringement, Hotfile did not significantly address the problem of repeat infringers. This renders Hotfile's policy legally insufficient under Section 512(i) .\
Before leaving the issue, the Court briefly addresses two other points made by Hotfile. First, Hotfile contends that the Studios should be equitably estopped from asserting a DMCA challenge because of the parties' previous cooperation on infringement issues. In particular, they assert that Warner's participation in Hotfile's SRA program precludes the Studios' DMCA argument (although it should be noted that not every Studio Plaintiff participated in the SRA program.) (Titov Decl. Ex. 31 (DE 275-10 (filed under seal); DE 321-31; DE 321-32; DE 321-33).) That individual later testified, however, that he was merely "being polite" and did not condone Hotfile's actions.\
Principles of estoppel apply to copyright actions in the same manner as they apply to other actions at law. Although the parties have not cited authority discussing a DMCA defense in particular, a copyright claim can be waived if "(1) the plaintiff [knows] the facts of [*26] the defendant's infringing conduct; (2) the plaintiff [intends] that its conduct shall be acted on or must so act that the defendant has a right to believe that it is so intended; (3) the defendant [is] ignorant of the true facts; and (4) the defendant [relies] on the plaintiff's conduct to its injury." Carson v. Dynegy, Inc., 344 F.3d 446, 453 (5th Cir. 2003) (collecting authority). Here, although Hotfile has pointed to an isolated discussion that may be useful in a cross-examination at trial, there are no facts to sustain a conclusion that the Studios have acquiesced to Hotfile's conduct. The Studios appear to have protected the rights to their content, and there is no suggestion that they knew and approved of the extent of Hotfile's actions (or inaction).\
Second, Hotfile has moved for partial summary judgment on the applicability of the DMCA to conduct that occurred after this litigation was initiated. As support, Hotfile provides evidence of a continuum of increased compliance, such as applying new fingerprinting and hashing technology, giving copyright owners access to Hotfile's SRA program, and implementing other "powerful countermeasures," spanning from the summer of 2009 through Hotfile's retooling of its affiliate program in February 2012, a year after this litigation began. Some of this evidence shows that Hotfile took meaningful, recent steps to combat infringement. For example, it is undisputed that Hotfile adopted and began to implement a three-strikes policy, resulting in the termination of over 20,000 of its users after the start of this litigation. Although the Court is mindful that the DMCA does not specify the characteristics of a reasonably implemented policy, it is unaware of any situation in which a three-strikes policy has been found to be ineffective. See, e.g., Viacom Int'l Inc. v. YouTube, Inc., 718 F. Supp. 2d 514, 528-29 (S.D.N.Y. 2010) rev'd in part on other grounds,676 F.3d 19 (2d Cir. 2012) (discussing strike-based policies).\
This request to limit liability raises questions of whether a party can ever regain the protections of the DMCA and whether the Court should trust Hotfile not to revert to their offending conduct; whether the Court can determine the exact point at which Hotfile implemented a DMCA-compliant policy and, if so, whether the Court should use the date of technical compliance as the point of entry to safe harbor or whether the proper measure should be when Hotfile ceased to be a hotbed for infringement (since many DMCA requirements have a prospective purpose); and whether the parties have conducted a sufficient amount of discovery for the Court to make these determinations at this stage. However, in their briefing and at a day-long oral argument, the Studios made clear that they have brought suit based on Hotfile's system and business model "as they existed pre-Complaint" and that post-Complaint damages are not a part of this dispute. Accordingly, relying on these express representations and because the Studios have not yet made any claim concerning post-Complaint damage, the Court need not decide these issues and refrains from issuing an advisory opinion on Hotfile's current practices.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb108\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 2. Other [*27] Disqualifying Factors\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Having concluded that a necessary precondition to DMCA safe harbor eligibility - a reasonably implemented repeat infringer policy - is lacking as a matter of law, the Court concludes that Hotfile's DMCA defense fails. Nevertheless, the Court offers observations and conclusions about two of the remaining DMCA requirements.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb108\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 a. DMCA Agent\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Section 512(c)(2) requires that a service provider "designate[ ] an agent to receive notifications of claimed infringement... by making available through its service, including on its website in a location accessible to the public, and by providing to the Copyright Office, substantially the following information: (A) the name, address, phone number, and electronic mail address of the agent." 17 U.S.C. \'a7 512(c)(2). Per the express terms of the statute, "[o]nly substantial compliance with the enumerated requirements is required by subsection 512(c)(2) , as is also the case with subsection (c)(3) ." Perfect 10, Inc. v. Amazon.com, Inc., No. CV 05-4753 AHM (SHx), [2009 ILRC 1843], 2009 WL 1334364 , at *8 (C.D. Cal. May 12, 2009) (citing H.R. Rep. No. 105-551(II) (1998)). The legislative history for the provision includes the following committee statement, which explains that decision: \
The Committee intends that the substantial compliance standard in subsections (c)(2) and (c)(3) be applied so that technical errors (such as misspelling a name, supplying an outdated area code if the phone number is accompanied by an accurate address, or supplying an outdated name if accompanied by an e-mail address that remains valid for the successor of the prior designated agent or agent of a copyright owner) do not disqualify service providers and copyright owners from the protections afforded under subsection (c) . The Committee expects that the parties will comply with the functional requirements of the notification provisions-such as providing sufficient information so that a designated agent or the complaining party submitting a notification may be contacted efficiently-in order to ensure that the notification and take down procedures set forth in this subsection operate smoothly.
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 S. Rep. No. 105-190 (1998) (emphasis added). "To prevail at trial, the service provider has the burden of proving that it properly designated a copyright agent and that it responded to notifications as required." Perfect 10, Inc., [2009 ILRC 1843], 2009 WL 1334364 , at *8.\
Here, the record shows that Hotfile had a "report abuse" form on its website and provided an e-mail address where users could report infringing content. It did not register a DMCA agent with the Copyright Office until December 2009; did not identify an agent on its website until May 2010; and, to date, has not provided a proper mailing address for its registered agent insofar as it lists only a post office box. See37 C.F.R. \'a7 201.38(c) (noting that the submission of an agent designation must bear the caption "Interim Designation of Agent to Receive Notification of Claimed Infringement" and include, among other things, a "full address" and not a "post office box or similar designation... except where it is the only address that can be used in that geographic location"). While the statute focuses on whether someone with an infringement complaint [*28] would be able to contact the company, courts have held that substantial compliance in the DMCA context "means substantial compliance with all its clauses, not just some of them." Perfect 10, Inc. v. Yandex N.V., No. C 12-01521 WHA, [2013 ILRC 1843], 2013 WL 1899851 , at *3 (N.D. Cal. May 7, 2013) (discussing 17 U.S.C. \'a7 512(c)(3)). Thus, even were Hotfile otherwise able to avail itself of the DMCA safe harbor, the Court concludes that it would be ineligible under Section 512(c)(2) at least through May 2010, the date on which it published its agent's contact information. See Yandex, [2013 ILRC 1843], 2013 WL 1899851 , at *7 ("The phrase 'substantially all the following information' modifies the ensuing the subparagraphs that list types of contact information... it cannot excuse a failure to provide the Copyright Office with any information at all.").\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb108\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 b. Actual or Red Flag Knowledge of Infringement\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Finally, much of the Studios' briefing addresses Section 512(c)(1)(A)(i) , which requires that a defendant not have "actual knowledge that the material or an activity using the material on the system or network is infringing" without removing it. 17 U.S.C. \'a7 512(c)(1)(A)(i). The safe harbor also requires that the defendant not have knowledge "of facts or circumstances from which the infringing activity is apparent." 17 U.S.C. \'a7 512(c)(1)(A)(ii). As one court interpreting the statute explained, "[t]he DMCA's protection of an innocent service provider disappears at the moment the service provider loses its innocence, i.e., at the moment it becomes aware that a third party is using its system to infringe." ALS Scan, Inc., 239 F.3d at 625 . These provisions of the DMCA are designed to "deny safe harbor protection to Internet service providers operating or linking to pirate sites whose illegal purpose is obvious to a reasonable person." MP3tunes, LLC, 821 F. Supp. 2d at 643-44 (citing S. Rep. No. 105-190 (1998)).\
Nevertheless, there are two important limitations on disqualification. First, Section 512(m) specifies that a service provider has no duty to monitor activity occurring on its service or to "affirmatively seek facts indicating infringing activity," which informs the knowledge analysis. 17 U.S.C. \'a7 512(m). Second, because the statute elsewhere imposes the requirement that providers remove every piece of material identified as infringing, "[g]eneral awareness of rampant infringement is not enough to disqualify a service provider of protection." MP3tunes, LLC, 821 F. Supp. 2d at 644 . Instead, the section "requires knowledge or awareness of specific infringing activity." Viacom Int'l, Inc., 676 F.3d at 30-32 (collecting authority) ("[T]he nature of the removal obligation itself contemplates knowledge or awareness of specific infringing material, because expeditious removal is possible only if the service provider knows with particularity which items to remove."); accord UMG Records, Inc., [2013 ILRC 1467], 2013 WL 1092793 , at *11 (declining to adopt "a broad conception of the knowledge requirement" and holding that the safe harbor requires "specific knowledge of particular infringing activity").\
Alternatively, "the red flag provision turns on whether the provider was subjectively aware of facts that would have made the specific infringement 'objectively' obvious to a reasonable person." Viacom Int'l, Inc., 676 F.3d at 31 (emphasis added). Courts have recognized that while willful blindness under the common law - [*29] i.e., an intentional effort to avoid guilty knowledge - can equate to actual knowledge, a DMCA analysis should not lose sight of the focus on specificity.  Id. at 35 ("[W]illfull blindness [ ] may be applied, in appropriate circumstances, to demonstrate knowledge or awareness of specific instances of infringement under the DMCA."); Tiffany (NJ) Inc. v. eBay Inc., 600 F.3d 93, 107 , 109-10 (2d Cir. 2010). In a recent decision analyzing the competing considerations of the statute, one court concluded that a lack-of-knowledge defense was a triable issue because several documents in the record could have been viewed "as imposing a duty to make further inquiries into 'specific and identifiable' instances of possible infringement." Capitol Records, Inc. v. MP3tunes, LLC, No. 07 Civ. 9931 (WHP), [2013 ILRC 1867], 2013 WL 1987225 , at *3 (S.D.N.Y. May 14, 2013) (citation omitted).\
With regard to Hotfile's actual knowledge, the Studios' proof consists primarily of circumstantial evidence of infringement. The Studios assert that Hotfile does not serve a primarily lawful purpose, citing the facts that Hotfile pays users based on downloads rather than uploads (suggesting that it is a file sharing, rather than storage, service) and that a high percentage of downloaded files are infringing (suggesting infringing files are the most popular and drive user activity). The Studios thus contend that Hotfile resembles other peer-to-peer file sharing networks that have been shut down, highlighted by the fact that Hotfile's business increased as some of those systems became inactive. As further support, the Studios cite documents containing purported admissions that Hotfile is "the flagship of non-licensed content."\
In response, Hotfile states that it provides a vehicle for the distribution of files with the authorization of the content owner and that the primary purposes of its system are personal storage, "space shifting" and distribution of non-protected materials. Indeed, Hotfile has shown that one of the Studios used Hotfile to distribute its own content. And Hotfile points to statistics showing that its network is actually used for those purposes, observing that most files have never been downloaded (i.e., most uploaded files have not been retrieved by another user); that the most popular links currently available are for noninfringing content (such as open-source software) that is meant to be freely copied and shared; that there is no search feature that allows users to locate files; and that only a small percentage of files have been the subject of a DMCA notice or SRA action or have been the subject of infringement. According to Hotfile, it is a small business trying to eke out a reasonable profit in a prohibitively litigious world.\
Considering all of the evidence, the Court cannot say - and does not need to determine - which Hotfile is before it. The testimony, documents and evidence of particular system characteristics create an issue of fact for a jury as to whether Hotfile knew or blinded itself to actual infringement of particular works, on a small or large scale. The master copy policy as it existed prior to this litigation, for instance, could mean that Hotfile was [*30] attuned to the infringing nature of files, but merely disabled the offending link rather than removing the file itself. Because a significant number of the DMCA notices concerned the Studios' works, a jury could conclude that Hotfile understood that it was continuing to make particular infringing content available to the public or that, at the very least, it should have investigated those files. Similarly, to the extent that communications with users should have alerted Hotfile to the infringing nature of files on its system that were owned by the Studios (such as users seeking technical assistance who indicated that their difficulties were owing to the illegal nature of their activity), Hotfile might be deemed to have possessed red flag knowledge. See UMG Recordings, Inc., [2013 ILRC 1467], 2013 WL 1092793 , at *14 (stating that had e-mails identifying infringing content come from a system's users, rather than the copyright owner, "it might meet the red flag test because it specified particular infringing material"). Indeed, based on the evidence put on by the parties, a jury might even determine that Hotfile should have understood that particular material was infringing (or at least should have looked into whether infringement was occurring) when it became aware of the link name.\
But "[a]s a general rule, a party's state of mind (such as knowledge or intent) is a question of fact for the factfinder, to be determined after trial." Chanel, Inc. v. Italian Activewear of Fla., Inc., 931 F.2d 1474, 1476 (11th Cir. 1991). Thus, as to actual or red flag knowledge of infringement, the Court concludes that a genuine issue of material fact exists, and this issue would have to be resolved by a jury at trial.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb108\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 B. Liability for Infringement\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Without the benefit of the DMCA safe harbor, the Court must still determine whether Hotfile is liable for the copyright violations committed by its users. The DMCA does not supplant common law principles of liability, and a finding that such a protection is unavailable does not necessarily mean that liability for infringement on the system is proper. See Columbia Pictures Indus., Inc. v. Fung, 710 F.3d 1020, 1039-40 (9th Cir. 2013) ("[W]e are not clairvoyant enough to be sure that there are no instances in which a defendant otherwise liable for contributory copyright infringement could meet the prerequisites for one or more of the DMCA safe harbors. We therefore think it best to conduct the two inquiries independently - although, as will appear, aspects of the inducing behavior that give rise to liability are relevant to the operation of some of the DMCA safe harbors and can, in some circumstances, preclude their application."); Perfect 10, Inc. v. Cybernet Ventures, Inc., 213 F. Supp. 2d 1146, 1174 (C.D. Cal. 2002) ("These 'safe harbors' do not affect the question of ultimate liability under the various doctrines of direct, vicarious, and contributory liability... Rather they limit the relief available against service providers that fall within these safe harbors."); cf. Flava Works, Inc., 689 F.3d at 758 ("[A] noninfringer doesn't need a safe harbor.").\
Courts have struggled with defining the liability of Internet-based companies that provide the technological mechanism to foster, or at least enable, others to infringe. This confusion and uncertainty prompted in part the enactment [*31] of the DMCA. See, e.g., Sony Corp. of Am. v. Universal City Studios, 464 U.S. 417, 434 n.17 (1984) ("Sony/Betamax") (noting that "the lines between direct infringement, contributory infringement, and vicarious liability are not clearly drawn" (quoting district court decision)); Flava Works, Inc., 689 F.3d at 760 ("The only distinctions relevant to this case are between direct infringement... and contributory infringement, and between contributory infringement and noninfringement.").\
Even so, courts have recognized the value and remaining viability of a claim of secondary liability: "When a widely shared service or product is used to commit infringement, it may be impossible to enforce rights in the protected work effectively against all direct infringers, the only practical alternative being to go against the distributor of the copying device for secondary liability on a theory of contributory or vicarious infringement." Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Studios, Inc. v. Grokster, Ltd., 545 U.S. 913, 929-30 (2005) (citation omitted); Perfect 10, Inc. v. Amazon.com, Inc., 508 F.3d 1146, 1171 n.11 (9th Cir. 2007) ("[C]opyright holders cannot protect their rights in a meaningful way unless they can hold providers of such services or products accountable for their actions.") These theories of secondary liability - contributory infringement, inducement liability and vicarious liability - are court-created and do not rely on the Copyright Act or another statute. See Viacom Int'l Inc., 676 F.3d at 28 n.5 (citing Grokster, 545 U.S. at 930-31 ); Perfect 10, Inc. v. Visa Int'l Serv. Ass'n, 494 F.3d 788, 795 (9th Cir. 2007) ("Contributory copyright infringement is a form of secondary liability with roots in the tort-law concepts of enterprise liability and imputed intent.").\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb108\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 1. Inducement and Contributory Infringement\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 The Supreme Court's seminal 2005 decision in Grokster observed that "[o]ne infringes contributorily by intentionally inducing or encouraging direct infringement." 545 U.S. at 929 . "[C]ontributory liability is based on the defendant's failure to stop its own actions which facilitate third-party infringement." Amazon.com, Inc., 508 F.3d at 1175 . The theory has two requirements: (1) the defendant knows of direct infringement, and (2) the defendant "induces, causes, or materially contributes to [that] infringing conduct." Napster, Inc., 239 F.3d at 1020 (internal quotation and citations omitted). To "establish inducement liability, it is crucial to establish that the distributors communicated an inducing message to their... users.'" Visa Int'l Serv. Ass'n, 494 F.3d at 801 (internal quotation omitted).\
Thus, to establish this derivative liability, a plaintiff must first make a prima facie case of direct infringement by a third party, which is done by proving ownership of a particular work and evidence of unauthorized copying. Napster, Inc., 239 F.3d at 1013 n.2; Situation Mgmt. Sys., Inc. v. ASP Consulting LLC, 560 F.3d 53, 58 (1st Cir. 2009) (quoting Feist Publ'ns, Inc. v. Rural Tel. Serv. Co., 499 U.S. 340, 361 (1991)). In this case, the parties do not dispute that the Studios own 3,800 works at issue and that they have properly registered them under Section 411 of the Copyright Act. Moreover, while Hotfile takes issue with the Studios' method for proving infringement, it does not dispute that at least some of the Studios' works have been illegally copied or downloaded using the Hotfile system. This has caused the Studios to lose money they would have earned from licensing the content to users and because of the threat of further downstream "viral" distributions. The Waterman [*32] study and the facts of the counterclaim provide competent proof in that regard; any other questions merely go to the level of damages. Cf. Fung, 710 F.3d at 1034 .\
The more vexing question here concerns the hallmark of this type of liability - whether intent can be expressly shown or inferred from Hotfile's actions. The Studios allege that infringement is a natural consequence of Hotfile's business model; that the company "actively fosters" massive copyright infringement to increase its revenue; and that despite storing all infringing content on its servers, it failed to mitigate infringement.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb108\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 a. Grokster-type Intent\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 In this regard, courts have held that even though an entity merely distributes a device that causes infringement, it may nonetheless be liable for inducement if the defendant has "the object of promoting its use to infringe copyright, as shown by clear expression or other affirmative steps taken to foster infringement." Grokster, 545 U.S. at 919 . Liability may be imposed "if the actor knowingly takes steps that are substantially certain to result in [ ] direct infringement." Amazon.com, Inc., 508 F.3d at 1170 . Or, a defendant can encourage or induce infringement through certain acts, "such as advertising an infringing use or instructing how to engage in an infringing use." Grokster, 545 U.S. at 936 (citations and internal quotations omitted). In addition to these methods of directly proving intent, an actor may be liable under older common law theories based on imputing intent, such as by knowing of specific acts of infringement and failing to act or by providing "material support" to those who commit infringement. As discussed below, there is disagreement as to the parameters of these doctrines, whether they continue to apply, and what defenses may be applicable to counter the deleterious effect they may have on innovation and the benefits of technology.\
The decision in Grokster illustrates what unquestionably suffices to show actual intent. There, a group of copyright holders consisting of recording companies, songwriters and music publishers sued companies that distributed software products enabling peer-to-peer file sharing among users. 545 U.S. at 919 . The defendants did not maintain copies of files on their servers, did not know which files their users were transmitting, and did not effectively control user-behavior.  Id. at 920 & n.1, 922 . But evidence showed that "the probable scope of copyright infringement is staggering" and that the defendants were aware of the nature of the infringement.  Id. at 923 . Similar to the facts of this case, an expert commissioned by one of the plaintiffs concluded that 90 percent of the files on one of the systems were infringing, although the defendants raised methodological challenges, suggested that the software had significant noninfringing uses, and provided other "anecdotal and statistical evidence" to show that files might not have been copyright protected.  Id. at 922-23 . Finally, e-mails from users "with questions about playing copyrighted movies they had downloaded" and notifications from one of the plaintiffs [*33] about the infringing nature of certain files demonstrated the defendants' knowledge of the fact of infringement.  Id. at 923 .\
The Court went beyond knowledge of infringement, however, to address actual evidence of intent. It concluded that the defendants "clearly voiced the objective that recipients use it to download copyrighted works, and each took active steps to encourage infringement."  Id. at 923-24 . In particular, one of the defendants designed and advertised software to compete with a system that was ruled to have been infringing (Napster), thereby "aiming to satisfy a known source of demand for copyright infringement."  Id. at 924 , 939 . Their business models were centered on advertising revenue driven by the popularity of content, which the court equated with infringing content and which confirmed "that [defendants'] principal object was use of their software to download copyrighted works."  Id. at 926 ("Users seeking Top 40 songs, for example, or the latest release by Modest Mouse, are certain to be far more numerous than those seeking a free Decameron, and Grokster and StreamCast translated that demand into dollars.")  16  Finally, the Court found that companies failed to develop tools "to diminish the infringing activity [of] using their software," thereby underscoring their "intentional facilitation of their users' infringement."  Id. at 939 .\
After discussing the plaintiffs' prima facie case of liability for inducement and vicarious liability, which fall under the umbrella of secondary liability, the Grokster Court considered defenses. In particular, it discussed its holding in Sony/Betamax, which the court of appeals had applied in affirming the district court's grant of summary judgment. 17  That decision applied the "staple article of commerce doctrine" and concluded that an actor distributing a commercial product (such as a video recording device) is not liable for acts of infringement, even if it knows of actual or likely infringement, unless the product is incapable of substantial noninfringing uses. Grokster, 545 U.S. at 932-333 (discussing the holding of Sony/Betamax). The Court sought to balance the harms that infringement has on copyright owners with the effect liability might have in stifling commerce and innovation. Thus, it suggested that the doctrine applies only to circumstances where no intent to promote infringing uses can be imputed from the design of a distributed product and where the defendant has not "expressed an object" of bringing about infringement, such as by advertising uses that are necessarily infringing.  Id. at 933 . In other words, the Sony/Betamax rule does not bar liability where a plaintiff pleads an inducement theory of secondary liability premised on actual evidence of intent.  Id. at 933 ("Sony barred secondary liability based on presuming or imputing intent to cause infringement solely from the design or distribution of a product capable of substantial lawful use, which the distributor knows is in fact used for infringement.... Because Sony did not displace other theories of secondary liability, and because we find below that it was error to [*34] grant summary judgment to the companies on MGM's inducement claim, we do not revisit Sony further.").\
The Grokster Court concluded that "one who distributes a device with the object of promoting its use to infringe copyright, as shown by clear expression or other affirmative steps taken to foster infringement, is liable for the resulting acts of infringement by third parties," and, in that instance, the staple article of commerce doctrine does not act as an affirmative defense.  Id. at 936-37 . A showing of intent requires evidence of active steps taken to entice or persuade another to infringe and cannot be established from "mere knowledge of infringing potential," "actual infringing uses," "a failure to take affirmative steps to prevent infringement," or "ordinary acts incident to product distribution, such as offering customers technical support or product updates."  Id. at 935-37 , 939 n.12, 940 (stating that the fact that a business model benefits from infringement could not alone "justify an inference of unlawful intent, but viewed in the context of the entire record its import is clear"). Instead, liability must be premised on "purposeful, culpable expression and conduct."  Id. at 937 .\
Based on the evidence presented, the Court in Grokster found an "unlawful objective" that was "unmistakeable": the system was used predominately to infringe. The Court predicated its conclusion on the facts that the defendants learned of the infringing nature of use when providing technical assistance; the business competed with another system whose users were known to have infringed; the business model was driven by the availability of unlicensed content; and the defendants took no meaningful steps to prevent infringement. 18   Id. at 941 .\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb108\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 b. Material Contribution Liability\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Developing guidance for some of Grokster's unanswered questions, a more recent case from the Southern District of New York reviewed the file sharing service LimeWire and addressed how the legal theories of inducement of infringement, contributory infringement, common law infringement and unfair competition fit together. Lime Group, 784 F. Supp. 2d at 409 . The service at issue employed peer-to-peer technology through which software created by the defendants took an inventory of files on users' computers and allowed others to search for and download them directly.  Id. at 410-411 . The same expert engaged by the Studios in this case, Dr. Waterman, concluded that 98.8 percent of the files downloaded through LimeWire were not authorized for free distribution and that 43.6 percent of those files were owned by the plaintiffs in the action.  Id. at 412 . The court determined that there was sufficient evidence of direct infringement by LimeWire users and that the Waterman report provided competent proof of the scope of that infringement.  Id. at 422-24 .\
On the issue of Grokster-type inducement, the court found that summary judgment in favor of the plaintiffs was warranted.  Id. at 426 . Evidence cited by the court to establish the defendants' awareness of infringement included: (1) the scope of the infringement, which revealed that "most actual [*35] downloads involve unauthorized content;" (2) internal communications that not only noted that users were sharing digital recordings, but also acknowledged that they were copyrighted (including a document in which the defendants considered legitimizing and monetizing user activity); (3) the fact that the infringing nature of the activity was communicated to defendants through user e-mails and the company maintained articles about infringement in a file labeled "Knowledge of Infringement;" and (4) the fact that the defendants provided technological assistance with files that "plainly relate[d] to unauthorized sharing of digital recordings."  Id. at 426-28 .\
Moreover, like the network in Grokster, the defendants developed business strategies to target users of shuttered networks; their advertisements intimated illegal uses; and their revenue relied on the popularity of content that was indirectly tied to infringement.  Id. at 427-29 . Other attributes of the LimeWire software suggested that it was designed with infringement in mind. The program not only enabled searches, but also suggested popular and copyrighted recordings to users; the defendants even tested its functionality using protected titles.  Id. at 428 . Moreover, the defendants failed to implement any sort of technical barrier or design choice to diminish infringement; instead, while existing technology could have been applied to infringing works, that filtering technology was disabled by default (and had to be enabled by users).  Id. at 429-430 . Finally, the defendants had considered alternative business models, including opening a store to guide users to licensed content. Id . This evidence was sufficient to show the same kind of unmistakeable intent as existed in Grokster. \
But in addressing other common law principles of secondary infringement, Judge Wood concluded that summary judgment was inappropriate. The decision made a distinction between inducement liability, which requires Grokster-type evidence of intent, and contributory infringement liability, which does not so long as a defendant's contribution to infringing activities is "material." 19   Id. at 432 . Under the contributory infringement theory of liability, the court found that the evidence was sufficient to show the defendants' knowledge of and material contribution to substantial infringing activity.  Id. at 434 . However, applying the Sony/Betamax rule, the court found there was insufficient evidence that the LimeWire service was incapable of substantial noninfringing uses. Id . The court observed that, while the LimeWire service was used "overwhelmingly for infringement" at the time of the decision, the defendants demonstrated substantial noninfringing uses that existed or were likely to develop, including distribution of non-protected works. Id . Thus, under the Lime Group analysis, the Sony/Betamax rule may still be raised as a theory of defense where the intent to infringe or induce infringement is not explicit, but rather is imputed from a defendant's material contribution to infringement.\
Several other courts have considered [*36] the material contribution theory of liability but have not always addressed the applicability of the Sony/Betamax defense under that theory. In Fonovisa, Inc. v. Cherry Auction, Inc., 76 F.3d 259 (9th Cir. 1996), operators of a swap meet where counterfeit goods were sold were deemed to have provided the "support services" for infringement, including "the provision of space, utilities, parking, advertising, plumbing, and customers," such that the swap meet operators could be held liable.  Id. at 263 . Extending that theory of liability to the Internet context, the district court in Napster found the search and directory features of the music sharing program to be "an Internet swap meet." A&M Records, Inc. v. Napster, Inc., 114 F. Supp. 2d 896, 919-20 (N.D. Cal. 2000) (quoting briefing), aff'd in part & rev'd in part,239 F.3d 1004, 1022 (9th Cir. 2001). On appeal, albeit in a pre-Grokster decision, the Ninth Circuit found that the Sony/Betamax defense was applicable to instances in which intent to promote infringement was imputed from the structure of the system, but inapplicable to instances where the defendant has identified specific information regarding infringing activity. Napster, 239 F.3d at 1020-22 . While the court concluded that the defendants were also liable under a Fonovisa material contribution theory, it did not address whether the Sony/Betamax defense applies under that theory.  Id. at 1022 .\
In In re Aimster, "[i]nstead of parking spaces, advertisements, and plumbing," the defendants "provided the software and the support services necessary for individual Aimster users to connect with each other... manag[ing] to do everything but actually steal the music off the store shelf and hand it to Aimster users." 252 F. Supp. 2d at 659 . The court disallowed the Sony/Betamax defense, reasoning that the online network had an ongoing relationship with the direct infringer, as opposed to merely providing the means to commit infringement in a single point-of-sale transaction, like selling a VCR - an argument aggressively pursued by the Studios in this case. 20  Moreover, the Aimster technology permitted mass distribution of infringing content rather than "private, home use copying."  Id. at 653 . Rather than focusing solely on the features of the staple article of commerce doctrine, the decision made a distinction that would be echoed three years later in Grokster: there was both a lack of evidence that the technology had legitimate purposes and significant evidence that the defendant intended to foster infringement.  Id. at 652-64 .\
For the most part, as in Lime Group, recent decisions have suggested that the Sony/Betamax rule applies wherever material contribution is at issue. See, e.g., Capitol Records, LLC v. ReDigi Inc., No. 12 Civ. 95 (RJS), [2013 ILRC 1588], 2013 WL 1286134 , at *13 (S.D.N.Y. Mar. 30, 2013) ("However, even where a defendant's contribution is material, it may evade liability if its product is 'capable of substantial noninfringing uses.'" (quoting Sony/Betamax, 464 U.S. at 442 )).\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb108\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 c. Knowledge of Infringing Content and Failure to Remove\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Finally, the Ninth Circuit's decision in Perfect 10, Inc. v. Amazon.com, Inc. shows that the Grokster decision does not foreclose other common law principles of imputing intent. In particular, a provider may face liability where it knows of particular instances of infringement - rather than simply that the system is capable of infringement or generally permits some level of infringement - and fails to act to remove [*37] it. There, a copyright owner sued two companies, one of which (Google) operated a search engine that permitted users to search the Internet for images and facilitated downloads of those images from third-party websites by linking to them. 508 F.3d at 1155-56 . On the issue of secondary infringement, it was undisputed that the third parties did not have permission to display plaintiff's images on their websites and that some direct infringement had occurred.  Id. at 1169 .\
The parties disagreed, however, as to whether Google fostered infringement through specific acts under Grokster. Although there was no suggestion that Google actually induced copyright infringement, the Ninth Circuit applied common law tort principles of fault-based liability to reason that "an actor may be contributorily liable for intentionally encouraging direct infringement if the actor knowingly takes steps that are substantially certain to result in direct infringement."  Id. at 1170-71 & n.11. It also relied on its pre-Grokster decision in Napster, which held that "if a computer system operator learns of specific infringing material on his system and fails to purge such material from the system, the operator knows of and contributes to direct infringement" under a material contribution theory.  Id. at 1171 . The court was persuaded by the reasoning that secondary infringement should be available to provide a practical mechanism for preventing direct infringement.  Id. at 1172 . Because the district court had applied a different standard and there was evidence that "Google substantially assist[ed] websites to distribute [users'] infringing copies to a worldwide market and assist[ed] a worldwide audience of users to access infringing materials," Google could have been liable if it failed to take simple measures to prevent damage to the plaintiff. Id . 21 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb108\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 d. Application of Precedent\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Against this body of jurisprudence, the Court sets out the standard for inducement and contributory infringement liability it applies here. First, while it may be unclear whether Grokster introduced a new category of liability based on inducement or whether it spoke to pre-existing notions of contributory liability, it is evident that a defendant will be liable for actually expressing an intention to foster infringement. If that intent is express or can otherwise be said to be "unmistakeable," the Sony/Betamax defense will not apply and the defendant will be liable for all acts of direct infringement committed using its system, as was the case in Grokster. Similarly, as explained in Amazon.com, where traditional principles permit a court to impute intent - for instance, where the defendant knows of specific infringing content available on its system yet fails to remove it - that defendant may be liable, by operation of law, just as if he had actually intended to infringe under Grokster. Finally, contributory infringement may be found based on a material contribution theory in instances where a defendant did not express an intention to foster infringement but provided the means for infringement or distributed a commercial product [*38] that was subsequently used to infringe. Under that theory, the Sony/Betamax rule provides a backstop to liability, immunizing a defendant who demonstrates that noninfringing uses of the system are substantial. The Studios have raised claims and presented facts related to each of these theories of liability.\
As a preliminary matter, it should be understood that although Hotfile has many unique characteristics, it is also true that it shares many of the attributes that have doomed other networks. 22  Most notably, the Court concludes that the extent of infringement by Hotfile's users was staggering, as was the case in Grokster. On this point, Hotfile questions the Waterman study and its finding of a respective 90.2% and 5.3% rate of infringement and noninfringement based on an examination of files that had been downloaded. The Court agrees that the study assumed an infringing purpose and that an examination of uploaded files - including those that were never shared or downloaded - would likely have shown a lower infringement rate and alternative uses for Hotfile's system apart from infringement (as Hotfile's expert, Dr. James Boyle, points out). It may also be true, as Hotfile argues, that the Waterman study examined too short of a time period (i.e., one month of data) and improperly excluded entire categories of files that would have resulted in an even lower rate.\
Despite Hotfile's quarrel with the Waterman rate and suggestion that it is somewhat high, it cannot dispute that an enormous amount of infringement has actually occurred on Hotfile's system. For example, the record reflects a large number of DMCA notices received by Hotfile - eight million in total. As is explained in the Court's discussion of the counterclaim, only a relatively small number of the notices pertaining to Warner have been claimed to be incorrect and noninfringing, suggesting the same may be true of the other sets of notices Hotfile received from the Studios. Moreover, while the Court cannot deduce that every file posted by a repeat infringer is actually infringing, the uploads of those subject to three or more notices constituted 44 percent of all files on Hotfile (and half of all downloaded files) in February 2011. At the very least, this shows that a high number of Hotfile users likely engaged in infringement - the vast majority of Hotfile's top affiliates, and well over 20,000 of its users - and were likely responsible for a substantial amount of infringement. Indeed, the Studios have identified over 900,000 files containing their own works that were available for the taking. These numbers are consistent with the demonstrated outcome of Hotfile's post-Complaint policy changes, which Hotfile asserts were effective in combatting infringement and resulted in the termination of affiliates and users, deletion of files, and a substantial drop in revenue.\
The Court can also conclude that Hotfile became aware of the general fact of infringement - although possibly not its scale - at least when it received DMCA notices through its agent and when it was sued or threatened [*39] with suit by copyright holders. Documents produced in discovery suggest that Hotfile was aware it was becoming "the flagship of non-licensed content;" that if it had examined the files on its system, it would have known of the infringing activity; and that it was doing business with those it suspected were infringers like the affiliate PlanetSuzy. Hotfile provided the means of infringement; it created and currently maintains the Hotfile website, which Hotfile's members actually use to infringe. Users even store the infringing content on Hotfile's own servers, in contrast to decentralized peer-to-peer networks, in which the information resides on users' computers.\
Finally, there is some evidence suggestive of a deliberate design to facilitate infringement. Hotfile is deliberately modeled after networks that were subsequently subject to challenges of infringement; its incentive structure rewards large and frequent file downloads; it pays members through an affiliate program; and it relies on the popularity of content to drive growth, even imploring users to post "interesting" links and media files. The fact that it actually pays infringers for this activity is, as the Studios argue in briefing, "simply unprecedented." Hotfile also provides technical assistance to those who infringe, both by answering specific questions from users about downloading media and by providing tutorials that reference copyrighted works. And, despite having the means to implement counter-piracy technologies and to target infringement (as demonstrated by Hotfile's actions immediately after the Complaint was filed), Hotfile did not take any meaningful action to curtail infringement. Moreover, it did not have an effective policy to terminate blatant, repeat infringement, which constituted a substantial amount of the total infringement, until February 2011. Based on the totality of the evidence, the Court concludes that Hotfile was successful in large part because it did not control infringement activity on its system.\
Nonetheless, the Court draws distinctions between this case and the case law recited above in which courts determined that judgment on the question of secondary liability was proper. For instance, despite an increase in user traffic, the Studios have shown neither that Hotfile's inspiration, RapidShare, actually was a pirate network nor that Hotfile targeted RapidShare's users to satisfy a known source of demand for copyright infringement, as was the situation in cases finding liability for networks attempting to become the next Napster. Indeed, as shown by the e-mail, Hotfile apparently viewed the migration of RapidShare users as a "bad thing." (Yeh Decl. Ex. 53 (DE 288-58 (filed under seal); DE 324-11).) Moreover, Hotfile did not promote any of its files or enable a file search function, but instead relied on third-party affiliates that were responsible for promoting (and essentially making available) infringing content. All infringing activity thus took place between uploading users, downloading [*40] users and affiliates (and not Hotfile). Additionally, the system has noninfringing uses ignored in the Studios' focus on downloading activity, such as the distribution of unlicensed materials. And Hotfile eventually developed a notice and takedown system and, over time, implemented technology to combat infringing users.\
Hotfile's general knowledge of infringement, even if rampant, is insufficient by itself to support liability. The Studios have not proffered an express statement by Hotfile indicating its intention to foster copyright infringement, that is, clearly voicing an objective of encouraging infringement. Not one document shows a business plan contemplating infringing uses or an understanding that Hotfile was actually assisting users (individually or as a whole) to commit infringement. Hotfile had no direct involvement in the acts of infringement (as would be the case if its employees had posted the Studios' copyrighted content). Unlike Lime Group, there were no considerations (and rejections) of counter-piracy software, internal communications acknowledging the illegal nature of specific network activity, or proposals to legitimize user activity. Unlike Grokster, the intent to infringe is not "unmistakeable" such that it can be said to be central to the business model and ingrained in the platform's design. Indeed, Hotfile has, at least, a plausible alternative design model in the form of personal data storage. 23 \
Although some evidence shows that Hotfile might have been on notice that specific acts of infringement were afoot, the evidence does not demonstrate that Hotfile knew for certain that the uses were illegal or that Hotfile induced the infringing use. For example, the Studios assert that users put Hotfile on notice that they were purchasing premium accounts "specifically to download copyrighted works." But the document supporting this assertion is an e-mail from a prospective user to a Hotfile e-mail address stating that he "wish[ed] to sign up to Hotfile to down load" eight "Ebooks" of older novels including Dickens's A Christmas Carol. (Yeh Decl. Ex. 66 (DE 324-12).) It is plausible that a service provider, foreign or domestic, might believe that a work from a 19th century English writer is no longer subject to copyright protection. The document shows no response from Hotfile endorsing an illegal use, and nothing about the request suggests that the user's downloads would be blatantly infringing.\
The Studios also allege that Hotfile "repeatedly provided technical assistance to users they knew were seeking to download [infringing] content," such as by answering user questions when the link's URL was apparent to Hotfile. (Hotfile could see the URL path of the last file downloaded in every communication.) But Hotfile points out that it had no way of knowing whether the user lacked permission to share the file, whether the file contained what the title indicated, or whether the work was actually protected by copyright. Indeed, the evidence shows that when users indicated to Hotfile that they were accessing [*41] particular content, they did nothing to conclusively inform Hotfile of the fact of infringement. While the Studios contend that by rewarding distribution of large and popular downloads (in contrast to promoting storage), Hotfile knew that it was encouraging the sharing of protected music and movies, no documents show that Hotfile equated popular content with protected content.\
Thus, with respect to each example raised by the Studios, a number of questions remain regarding Hotfile's intent (actual or imputed) to foster infringement and the capacity for and scope of noninfringing uses of Hotfile's system. For example: When Hotfile supported user activity or communicated with affiliates, did it know that the files actually contained copyrighted material as the link names or discussion indicated? Did Hotfile know that the works are currently protected by copyright? Did Hotfile know when users lacked permission to download certain works (which would not have been the case if the works were user-owned and "space-shifted," or if the files were freely-licensed, as the most popular downloads on Hotfile currently are)? Was Hotfile designed, and is it primarily used, for storage or for distribution? If the latter, did Hotfile intend to promote the infringement of copyrighted work, or did it merely provide a service that was ultimately used to infringe? Did Hotfile encourage the sharing of protected content, thereby crossing the threshold from knowledge of infringement to fostering infringement? In sum, unlike other cases where the evidence of intent is more compelling, the record here does not provide an unequivocal picture. The fact that these questions remain makes summary judgment inappropriate on the theories of inducement and contributory infringement liability. And while Hotfile may have a difficult time explaining its "innocence" to a jury, 24  the genuine issues of material fact must be resolved by a jury at trial.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb108\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 2. Vicarious liability\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 The Studios next assert that Hotfile is vicariously liable for the actions of its users. In contrast to contributory liability, which focuses on the defendant's actions in enabling infringement, "vicarious liability is based on the defendant's failure to cause a third party to stop its directly infringing activities." Amazon.com, Inc., 508 F.3d at 1175 (citations omitted). Vicarious copyright liability has been described as a variation of the doctrine of respondent superior - a form of strict liability premised on agency. See Fonovisa, Inc., 76 F.3d at 262 . Thus, the doctrine does not require knowledge of the infringement and may be applied even where the defendant has acted in good faith to prevent it. Id . 25  Vicarious infringement has two elements, occurring "when one profits from direct infringement while declining to exercise a right to stop or limit it." Luvdarts, LLC v. AT&T Mobility, LLC, 710 F.3d 1068, 1071 (9th Cir. 2013) (citing Grokster, 545 U.S. at 930 ); A&M Records, Inc., 239 F.3d at 1022 . The determination of whether a defendant has the capacity to halt infringement is determined by examining the system's "current architecture." Napster, 239 F.3d at 1024 .\
Hotfile contends that the Studios [*42] cannot show a "direct financial benefit" from infringement because Hotfile charges a fixed rate to users through subscriptions and does not profit incrementally from infringement. Hotfile's argument rests on an early Internet case, Religious Technology Center v. Netcom On-Line Communication Services, Inc., 907 F. Supp. 1361 (N.D. Cal. 1995), in which a member of a religious organization posted the plaintiffs' copyrighted works to a computer bulletin board service.  Id. at 1365-66 . Those works were automatically copied to the defendant's computer by the service and thereby made available to users who paid the defendant a fixed subscription fee.  Id. at 1365-68 . The court concluded that the plaintiffs were unlikely to prevail on their vicarious liability claim because the link between infringement and revenue was not sufficiently established.  Id. at 1376-77 .\
Notably, however, the Netcom court did not rule that a fixed fee could never provide a direct benefit basis for vicarious liability. Instead, the court observed that the plaintiffs failed to show that the policy at issue enhanced "the value of [defendant's] services to subscribers or attract[ed] new subscribers," in light of the fact that the defendant was merely an entity providing Internet access to users.  Id. at 1377 . Indeed, the only evidence of such a link consisted of a declaration from plaintiffs' counsel stating that the defendant was concerned it would lose business if an injunction were to be granted on the infringement claims. Id . The court found such evidence insufficient to show the type of financial tie required. Id .\
By contrast, other courts have permitted liability where the financial benefit was even more attenuated than here. In Arista Records LLC v. Usenet.com, Inc., 633 F. Supp. 2d 124 (S.D.N.Y. 2009), the court rejected an argument that causation was not established "because [the defendants] are paid on a per-volume, not per-download, basis and because infringing music accounts for less than 1% of the newsgroups available on their service."  Id. at 157 . Likewise, in the Ninth Circuit's Napster decision, an increase in user base - i.e., more user registrations - due to the increasing quality and quantity of available music meant that the defendants financially benefitted from infringement such that they were liable. 239 F.3d at 1023 (quoting lower court decision).\
The Napster case posits that only a causal relationship between infringement and profit must be established "regardless of how substantial the benefit is in proportion to a defendant's overall profits." Ellison v. Robertson, 357 F.3d 1072, 1079 (9th Cir. 2004). In other words, "the law is clear that to constitute a direct financial benefit, the 'draw' of infringement need not be the primary, or even significant, draw - rather, it only need be 'a' draw." Usenet.com, Inc., 633 F. Supp. 2d at 157 . As one observer noted after a review of many of these cases, "[a]t present, the dominant view is that any for profit enterprise could be found vicariously liable for copyright infringement however remote, unquantifiable, and unidentifiable the benefit it receives from copyright infringement may be." Craig A. Grossman, From Sony to Grokster, the Failure of the Copyright Doctrines of Contributory Infringement and Vicarious Liability to Resolve the War between [*43] Content and Destructive Technologies, 53 Buff. L. Rev. 141, 230-31 (2005).\
The Court has already concluded that questions remain regarding whether the financial benefit Hotfile received and the design of its business model are sufficient to impute intent to induce copyright infringement at this stage. But the vicarious liability standard requires neither that a defendant have knowledge of the acts of infringement nor that the defendant receive substantial financial benefit from infringement. Hotfile concedes that infringement did occur on its system and, while it argues that its support for infringement would not have made business sense, it acknowledges that infringing files drove some amount of sales to Hotfile, as shown by the Zebrak classifications and Waterman calculations. The infringement-sales connection is also indicated by the dramatic drop in Hotfile's income after the Complaint was filed and after Hotfile implemented its three-strikes policy and technologies to ferret out infringers. (See, e.g., Yeh Decl. Ex. 70 (DE 288-82 (filed under seal); DE 324-13).) Hotfile may contend that infringement was not central to its success, but it is undeniable that it financially benefitted from it by attracting some users. This is sufficient to subject Hotfile to vicarious liability under the first prong of the analysis.\
As for the second prong - the right to control user conduct and failure to do so - Hotfile contends that there is a triable issue because Hotfile's content-neutral approach meant that Hotfile could not determine which files were infringing, thereby depriving it of the ability to control the infringement. However, a reading of the common law standard suggests that courts have viewed this element expansively, finding that service providers have the capacity to control the activities of their users simply by virtue of providing the means to commit direct infringement. See, e.g., Gershwin Publ'g Corp. v. Columbia Artists Mgmt., Inc., 443 F.2d 1159, 1173 (2d Cir. 1971); Polygram Int'l Publ'g Inc. v. Nevada/TIG, Inc., 855 F. Supp. 1314, 1328 (D. Mass. 1994) (reviewing case law, quoting the legislative history of the Copyright Act, and concluding that a defendant has "control" if they "either actively operate or supervise the operation of the place wherein the performances occur, or control the content of the infringing program"). 26 \
For example, in Usenet.com, the defendants maintained online bulletin boards from which users (with a subscription) could download copyrighted sound recordings. 633 F. Supp. 2d at 130-131 . As sufficient evidence of the right to control, the court noted that the defendants had a policy that prohibited the sharing of copyrighted content; maintained computer servers that stored and transmitted user-originated content; possessed the ability to filter or block content, including infringing content; and "at times, exercised their right and ability to restrict, suspend, or terminate subscribers," such as by suspending accounts of spammers, limiting the activity of those who used a disproportionate amount of resources, and restricting downloads of pornographic material.  Id. at 131 , 157 . And in the swap meet case, albeit a non-Internet [*44] context, the site operator could be held vicariously liable because it "patrolled the premises," "controlled the access of customers to the swap meet area," and "had the right to terminate vendors for any reason whatsoever and through that had the ability to control the activities of vendors on the premises." Fonovisa, 76 F.3d at 262 .\
Beyond the right to exclude, the ability to control must be real and practical. In Perfect 10 v. Amazon.com, Inc., for instance, Google allowed users to search for images (including infringing images) on others' websites, but could not prevent those websites from posting infringing content and did not possess image-recognition technology that could precisely block its users' access to those images. 508 F.3d at 1174 . The court stated that the alleged offender must have "both a legal right to stop or limit the directly infringing conduct, as well as the practical ability to do so."  Id. at 1175 . Thus, Google was not vicariously liable because it could not control the activities of the direct infringers (although it could have been contributorily liable to the extent it materially assisted them).  Id. at 1174-75 . And in Luvdarts, LLC, the Ninth Circuit ruled that mobile wireless carriers could not be held vicariously liable for the acts of their subscribers who allegedly shared access to plaintiffs' protected works. 710 F.3d at 1071-72 . Even though the infringement occurred over the service networks that the defendants ran, the defendants had no way of supervising user activity or implementing a system to prevent infringement.\
The analysis here, based on precedent, is straightforward. Hotfile controls the means of infringement by among other things mandating user registration and hosting the infringing materials on its own servers. Cf. Amazon.com, Inc., 508 F.3d at 1174 (distinguishing Napster, 239 F.3d at 1023-24 ). Moreover, Hotfile has a stated policy that permits it to control user activity (and, as in Fonovisa, to exclude users) and maintains that it has exercised that control in policing content. Hotfile has also adopted technology that it claims is effective in filtering and targeting infringing works. These actions, which benefit Hotfile in an assessment of direct liability, belie Hotfile's argument that it lacks control because it has no search function and no way to identify or remove infringing files. It is also clear that prior to the filing of the Complaint, Hotfile failed to properly exercise its control in light of the number of users who were blatantly infringing and the estimates of the Studios' experts regarding the prevalence of protected content available for download. Accordingly, on this record, the Studios have made a case for vicarious liability, and summary judgment is entered in their favor.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb108\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 C. Anton Titov's Individual Liability\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 In addition to the corporate entity, Hotfile Corp., the Studios have sued Titov in his individual capacity, seeking to extend any damages that may be awarded against Hotfile. Titov has filed a separate motion for summary judgment on the issue of his liability. In this Circuit, "a corporate officer who directs, controls, ratifies, participates [*45] in, or is the moving force behind the infringing activity, is personally liable for such infringement." Babbit Elecs., Inc. v. Dynascan Corp., 38 F.3d 1161, 1184 (11th Cir. 1994) (citation omitted); Southern Bell Tel. & Tel. Co. v. Assoc. Tel. Directory Publishers, 756 F.2d 801, 811 (11th Cir. 1985). While much of this precedent concerns corporations that directly violate others' copyrights, it is equally applicable to entities liable for secondary infringement. See Usenet.com, 633 F. Supp. 2d at 158-59 (holding that director and sole shareholder of companies operating online bulletin boards where infringement occurred was liable under theories of direct and secondary liability for copyright infringement). The secondary infringement theory focuses on the effect the individual had on the decision to commit infringement and looks beyond the corporate form and principles of limited liability. See Babbit Elecs., Inc., 38 F.3d at 1184 (citation omitted).\
Alternatively, a person may be liable under a vicarious liability theory if he is responsible for supervising the infringing activity and benefits from it, even if he is "ignorant of the infringement." Southern Bell, 756 F.2d at 811 (citations omitted); see also Gershwin Pub'g Co., 443 F.2d at 1162 ("For example, a person who has promoted or induced the infringing acts of the performer has been held jointly and severally liable as a 'vicarious' infringer, even though he has no actual knowledge that copyright monopoly is being impaired.") As courts have recognized, \
A corporate officer may be held vicariously liable under the Copyright Act when: (1) the officer personally participated in the actual infringement; or (2) the officer derived financial benefit from the infringing activities as either a major shareholder in the corporation, or through some other means such as receiving a percentage of the revenues from the activity giving rise to the infringement; or (3) the officer used the corporation as an instrument to carry out a deliberate infringement of copyright; or (4) the officer was the dominant influence in the corporation, and determined the policies which resulted in the infringement; or (5) on the basis of some combination of the above criteria.
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Marvin Music Co. v. BHC Ltd. P'ship, 830 F. Supp. 651, 654-55 (D. Mass. 1993) (summarizing case law) (quotation omitted).\
Defendants attempt to minimize Titov's role, arguing that he is an "engineer," "technologist," "employee," or "accountant," rather than a key officer, involved only in "routine" administrative matters; that he did not provide the start-up capital or conceive of the idea for Hotfile; that he holds no sway over Hotfile either at the top-level or with respect to its day-to-day operations; and that Defendants' argument rests both on an assertion that Titov did not have personal involvement in the decisions giving rise to liability and that the group dynamic and the presence of more culpable figures  27  mean that Titov could not have had the requisite degree of control over the company's decisions to warrant liability.\
Defendants illustrate their argument by citing Mozingo v. Correct Manufacturing Corporation, 752 F.2d 168 (5th Cir. 1985), which involved a products liability claim against a work platform manufacturer and its president. There, the plaintiff established that the product was defective at trial, but the district court directed [*46] a verdict on the issue of the president's personal liability, applying a Mississippi doctrine that requires that an officer "directly participates in or authorizes the commission of a tort."  Id. at 171-73 . The evidence showed that the president organized and owned predecessor companies that manufactured the defective product.  Id. at 172-73 . Moreover, the president expressed "some reservations concerning the unit's safety" during its development - possibly touching on the nature of the defect - and "authorized the production of a single prototype unit."  Id. at 173 . Nevertheless, the district court characterized his involvement in the development and manufacturing processes as "peripheral" and cited his lack of awareness that the product was put into production.  Id. at 174 . In affirming, the Fifth Circuit reasoned that "[i]f [the president] can be held personally liable in this case, any corporate officer who fails to maintain an almost total ignorance of the products the corporation produces may be personally liable in the event a defective product is produced." Id .\
27 The Studios explain that they have not brought suit against these shareholders because Hotfile proffered Titov as its public face and the Studios only recently discovered these shareholders' identities.\
However, authority involving copyright infringement is not as stringent in holding relevant corporate principals liable. For example, in Quartet Music v. Kissimmee Broadcasting, Inc., 795 F. Supp. 1100 (M.D. Fla. 1992), a group of music publishers brought suit against a radio station and its president for broadcasting music in a manner inconsistent with a licensing agreement.  Id. at 1101 . Issuing a decision after a bench trial, the court juxtaposed the Eleventh Circuit's decision in Southern Bell and two district court cases, Warner Brothers Inc. v. Lobster Pot Inc., 582 F. Supp. 478 (N.D. Ohio 1984), which imposed liability against a president who oversaw a restaurant where unauthorized performances of music were held, and Broadcast Music, Inc. v. Behulak, 651 F. Supp. 57, 61 (M.D. Fla. 1986), which, by contrast, immunized a corporate officer who was merely a "silent partner" in the lounge where infringement occurred. Quartet Music, 795 F. Supp. at 1103-04 . The court concluded that the president was liable for copyright infringement notwithstanding his corporate role because of his participation in the activities of the business and the conduct at issue; he had been involved in litigation concerning similar claims, his company had been given notice of the alleged infringement, he ran the radio station's operations, and he had the right to supervise the infringing activity.  Id. at 1104 .\
While Quartet Music involved a single owner with exclusive control over the infringing activities, one judge in this district has observed that "Southern Bell does not require ultimate authority, nor does it require only one person to have authority." Foreign Imported Prods. & Publ'g, Inc. v. Grupo Indus. Hotelero, S.A., No. 07-22066 CIV, [2008 ILRC 2905], 2008 WL 4724495 , at *14 (S.D. Fla. Oct. 24, 2008). Numerous other courts support that proposition. See e.g., Columbia Pictures Indus., Inc. v. Redd Home, Inc., 749 F.2d 154, 160 (3d Cir. 1984) (affirming order imposing liability against both the president and sole shareholder of a defendant entity, as well as his brother, who was not a stockholder or officer but gave the impression that he was a principal in the business venture); Pickwick Music Corp. v. Record Prods., Inc., 292 F. Supp. 39, 41 (S.[*47] D.N.Y. 1968) (finding liability for three defendants who formed and ran a corporation, although they had different responsibilities for recording, editing, and selling an infringing record, but not two others who had "performed merely ministerial office functions"). "Corporate officers have been held liable for the copyright infringement committed by their corporate entity in a variety of situations." Blendingwell Music, Inc. v. Moor-Law, Inc., 612 F. Supp. 474, 482 (D. Del. 1985) (parenthetically citing examples). By contrast, Defendants point to no precedent suggesting that a multitude of culpable actors - and thus, the lack of a single "central figure" - is determinative of liability.\
Moreover, Defendants' contention that the particular facts of this case make it incomparable to any other is unpersuasive, since the hallmarks of participation, control, and benefit are undeniably present here. First, Titov is a high-ranking, central figure at Hotfile. He owns a stake in the company nearly as large as its other shareholders and runs it in equal part; and govern Hotfile by consensus. In his role, Titov has advanced, rejected, agreed upon or failed to block every decision that has shaped the company, including the efforts Hotfile took to identify and remove infringing content, implementing and eventually eliminating the master file policy, and deciding how to reward Hotfile's affiliates. Moreover, Titov was indispensable in the company's formation, crucial to the development of its business model, and continues to be involved in its business strategy. Titov acknowledges possessing power of attorney for the company and acting as its manager when authorized.\
In addition, Titov has personally had a hand in every aspect of the conduct underpinning the Studios' theories of liability in this case. For example, at the outset, Titov wrote the programming code that runs the Hotfile interface and enables direct infringers to upload and download protected works. More recently, he undertook a management role in which he oversees contractors working for Hotfile and participates in maintaining Hotfile's storage and delivery technology. Titov also has a significant impact in his work for Hotfile's related entities. He is the sole owner, manager and director of Lemuria, which owns and maintains the servers on which the infringing files at issue are stored, and he is the managing director of Hotfile Ltd., which collects subscription fees from users and pays affiliates. Together, these companies provide mechanisms necessary for Hotfile to collect its revenue, for its users to access its services, and for the entire system to sustain business and grow.\
The Studios have also pointed to specific evidence showing Titov's actual awareness of infringement on Hotfile's network. For example, he understood from his conversations with that Hotfile acquired users migrating from Rapidshare when that network was sued for infringement. He also expressed the concern that Hotfile would become the "flagship" for non-licensed content and was a party to communications claiming that certain files [*48] were infringing. Significantly, Titov appears on nearly every document that the Court considered in determining liability. Titov also put in place Hotfile's DMCA agent, who received millions of infringement notices. Thus, while the Court acknowledges that Titov may not have gone so far as to personally engage in acts of direct infringement, and that any one of his functions might not give rise to liability on its own, the totality of the circumstances supports liability. In contrast to other cases, his role is not peripheral, his function is not that of merely a silent shareholder or ordinary employee, and his duties are not just ministerial.\
The Studios have shown sufficient financial benefit and control for the Court to conclude that Titov is liable under a vicarious liability theory. With regard to the first requirement - financial benefit - the evidence shows that as the company earned money from new subscriptions (some portion of which was attributable to the availability of infringing materials), so did Titov. Titov also instructed employees to ban one user, demonstrating his ability to block or exclude Hotfile's clientele. And, as noted previously, the record shows Titov's impact in determining Hotfile's policies and his dominant influence on the corporation. To the extent that Hotfile can be found liable on any of the theories discussed above, the Court finds that Titov was a critical actor in the underlying operations. Thus, there are no disputed facts that preclude a finding that Titov is vicariously liable for the acts of infringement occurring on Hotfile's network.\
In a final effort to avoid liability, Defendants contend that Titov - a Russian citizen who resides in Bulgaria - is not subject to personal jurisdiction in Florida. Titov has advanced this assertion at least twice in this case: as a defense in his Answer and by asking the Studios not to serve him while he attended mediation in this jurisdiction. However, Titov failed to address the issue in the motion to dismiss he filed on March 31, 2011 (DE 50), which challenged only whether the Complaint stated a claim for relief under Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 12(b)(6) . Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 12(h) provides that a party waives certain defenses that could have been raised under Rule 12(b) - such as lack of personal jurisdiction - by failing to interpose them in the first pleading. Rule 12(h) is explicit, requires compliance, and means that Titov has procedurally waived the personal jurisdiction issue. See, e.g., Boston Telecomms. Grp., Inc. v. Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu, 249 F. App'x 534 , 537 (9th Cir. 2007) (reversing district court's finding of non-waiver of personal jurisdiction where counsel had not seen a copy of the complaint, moved to dismiss for insufficiency of process, and stated that he reserved the right to file a supplemental motion to dismiss).\
Moreover, a long litany of cases establishes the common law principle that a party waives such a defense by appearing generally and litigating the merits of a claim, as Titov has done here. See, e.g., Ins. Corp. of Ireland, Ltd. v. Compagnie des Bauxites de Guinee, 456 U.S. 694, 706 (1982) (noting that where personal jurisdiction is lacking, the [*49] defendant has the choice of ignoring the proceedings and raising a collateral challenge in enforcement proceedings or appearing specifically to challenge personal jurisdiction). 28  After stumbling upon a personal jurisdiction challenge buried deep in the summary judgment briefing, the Court finds no indication that Titov is avoiding a defense of the suit on the merits. To the contrary, in asserting defenses, filing motions related to the record, and personally attending oral argument, Titov has submitted to - has invoked - the jurisdiction of this Court. The Court finds Titov's contentions that this was the "first available opportunity" to raise the issue and that the Studios "have waived any waiver argument" disingenuous. If any issue could be deemed waived, this is and he has.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb108\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 D. Hotfile's Counterclaim\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 And finally, the Court turns to Hotfile's counterclaim against Plaintiff Warner. Notices of infringement are a prominent feature of the DMCA. The statute spells out six elements for a notice to be effective, specifies requirements the service provider must meet so that it may properly receive notice, requires service providers to act on receipt of notices such as by removing infringing users' content, and provides a procedure for challenging copyright owners' designations. Providing the legal basis for Hotfile's counterclaim, Section 512(f) sets out a private cause of action for anyone who is injured by a material representation that content or activity is infringing when it is not: \
Any person who knowingly materially misrepresents under this section... that material or activity is infringing... shall be liable for any damages, including costs and attorneys' fees, incurred by the alleged infringer, by any copyright owner or copyright owner's authorized licensee, or by a service provider, who is injured by such misrepresentation, as the result of the service provider relying upon such misrepresentation in removing or disabling access to the material or activity claimed to be infringing, or in replacing the removed material or ceasing to disable access to it.
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 17 U.S.C. \'a7 512(f).\
Section 512(c) , dealing with the creation of notices, requires that notices be accompanied by "[a] statement that the complaining party has a good faith belief that use of the material in the manner complained of is not authorized by the copyright owner, its agent, or the law." 17 U.S.C. \'a7 512(c)(3)(A)(v). Nonetheless, Section 512(f) does not impose liability for issuing a defective notice per se, only for making false claims of infringement. According to the statute's legislative history, the subsection "establishes a right of action against any person who knowingly misrepresents that material or activity is infringing" and "is intended to deter knowingly false allegations to service providers in recognition that such misrepresentations are detrimental to rights holders, service, providers, and Internet users." S. Rep. No. 105-190 (1998) at 50. In this regard, Hotfile claims that Warner had actual knowledge that the identified notices were false and asserts that it was damaged [*50] as a result. Warner, conversely, has moved for summary judgment on the ground that Hotfile cannot make a sufficient showing to establish its claim.\
Preliminarily, the parties, like the Court, have grappled with several issues surrounding enforcement of Section 512(f) , which is not well understood. See Ground Zero Museum Workshop v. Wilson, 813 F. Supp. 2d 678, 704 (D. Md. 2011) ("There is not a great deal of case law interpreting [Section 512(f) ]."); UMG Recordings, Inc. v. Augusto, 558 F. Supp. 2d 1055, 1065 (C.D. Cal. 2008), aff'd on other grounds,628 F.3d 1175 (9th Cir. 2011) (noting "uncertainty" in the area of law). For instance, both sides recognize that the statute requires actual, subjective knowledge of the fact of noninfringement at the time that a takedown notice is made, based upon the theory that one cannot knowingly misrepresent what one does not understand to be false. See Rossi v. Motion Picture Ass'n of Am., Inc., 391 F.3d 1000, 1004-05 (9th Cir. 2004) (holding that the statute "encompasses a subjective, rather than objective [reasonableness] standard"). 29  Indeed, mistakes, even "unreasonable" mistakes, do not necessarily call for liability, so long as they are honestly believed. Id . (citing 17 U.S.C. \'a7 512(f)).\
But Hotfile asks whether certain "egregious" attributes of Warner's system that might have prevented it from acquiring subjective knowledge (such as unjustly insulate Warner from liability for unreasonable mistakes. Compare, e.g., Online Policy Grp. v. Diebold, Inc., 337 F. Supp. 2d 1195, 1204 (N.D. Cal. 2004) ("'Knowingly' means that a party actually knew, should have known if it acted with reasonable care or diligence, or would have had no substantial doubt had it been acting in good faith, that it was making misrepresentations."), with Cabell, [2010 BL 239629], 2010 WL 996007 , at *4 ("[N]egligence is not the standard for liability under section 512(f) ." (citation omitted)), and Augusto, 558 F. Supp. 2d at 1065 (holding that allegations that the counterclaim-defendant "should have known better do not create a genuine issue of material fact"). Hotfile also asks whether can raise an inference that Warner is liable for possessing guilty knowledge or support liability under a willful blindness theory.\
Some courts have cited Section 512(c) to suggest liability where a party did not develop a "good faith" or "sufficient" basis to believe infringement before submitting a notice. See Dudnikov v. MGA Entm't, Inc., 410 F. Supp. 2d 1010, 1013 (D. Colo. 2005) (holding, in the context of a Section 512(f) claim, that the defendant "was required to show that it had a sufficient basis to form the required good faith belief that the plaintiffs' auction infringed on its rights, and that its actions therefore complied with the notice and takedown requirements under the DMCA); but see Augusto, 558 F. Supp. 2d at 1065 ("Congress included an expressly limited cause of action for improper infringement notifications, imposing liability only if a copyright owner's notification is a knowing misrepresentation." (quotation and citations omitted)). 30  One court, in a series of four decisions, went so far as to hold that prior to submitting a takedown notice, the copyright holder must consider not only whether the material actually belongs to it, but whether the use of the material lacks an obviously lawful purpose like fair use. See Lenz v. Universal Music Corp., 572 F. Supp. 2d 1150 (N.D. Cal. 2008) ("Lenz I") (denying motion to dismiss); Lenz v. Universal Music Corp., No. C07-3783 JF(RS), [2008 BL 247967], 2008 WL 4790669 (N.D. Cal. Oct. 28, 2008) ("Lenz II") (denying motion for interlocutory appeal); Lenz v. Universal Music Corp., No. C07-3783 JF, [2010 ILRC 1299], 2010 WL 702466 (N.D. Cal. Feb. [*51] 25, 2010) ("Lenz III") (granting plaintiff's motion for partial summary judgment on affirmative defenses); Lenz v. Universal Music Corp., No. 5:07-cv-03783-JF, [2013 ILRC 1113], 2013 WL 271673 (N.D. Cal. Jan. 24, 2013) ("Lenz IV") (denying motions for summary judgment). 31 \
Thus, if Warner had some similar type of duty, it might find itself vulnerable to suit because its pre-notice review Moreover, even if its methodology were reliable, Warner was concerned with determining whether it owned the works rather than whether the use of the works infringed on its copyrights to support a proper 512(c) claim. See Sony/Betamax, 464 U.S. at 433 ("[A]nyone... who makes a fair use of the work is not an infringer of the copyright with respect to such use."); Amaretto Ranch Breedables, LLC v. Ozimals, Inc., 790 F. Supp. 2d 1024, 1029 (N.D. Cal. 2011) (noting that a Section 512(f) plaintiff can contest the validity of a takedown notification even where a valid copyright exists). And, Warner's reliance on technology to accomplish the task might prevent it from forming any belief at all, as the amicus curiae argues here and a similar group asserted in Rossi: "computers conducting automated searches cannot form a belief consistent with the language of the DMCA, because they cannot distinguish between infringing content and content that merely contains words that suggest infringement." Rossi, 391 F.3d at 1005 n.7. The Court, however, is unaware of any decision to date that actually addressed the need for human review, and the statute does not specify how belief of infringement may be formed or what knowledge may be chargeable to the notifying entity.\
Ultimately, while these are engaging questions surrounding Warner's knowledge; its responsibility to investigate; whether it had a good faith belief in infringement in each instance; and whose burden it is to show or refute what - all issues of first impression in this Circuit - there is sufficient evidence in the record to suggest that Warner intentionally targeted files it knew it had no right to remove. This precludes summary judgment in its favor. Specifically, Hotfile has provided the example of JDownloader, which Warner did not manage It has also shown Warner's interest in an application of its takedown rights beyond works that it owns. And Warner has not otherwise argued that it had the right to remove those files, only that its mistakes should be excused. The Court finds this motive and other evidence sufficient to sustain an inference that Warner violated Section 512(f) , such that these issues should be presented to the jury.\
The only issue remaining is whether Hotfile is able to show any injury for the deletions, which is an element of a Section 512(f) claim and which Warner questions. "A fair reading of the statute, the legislative history, and similar statutory language indicates that \'a7 512(f) plaintiff's damages must be proximately caused by the misrepresentation to the service provider and the service provider's reliance on the misrepresentation." Lenz III, [2010 ILRC 1299], 2010 WL 702466 , at *10 (emphasis in original). In this regard, the Court observes that the quantity of economic damages to Hotfile's system is necessarily difficult to measure with precision and has led to much disagreement between the parties and their experts. Notwithstanding [*52] this difficulty, the fact of injury has been shown, and Hotfile's expert can provide the jury with a non-speculative basis to assess damages. Additionally, Lenz III concluded that the subsection provides for damages beyond actual damages, even if they are not substantial. Id . at *7-10. On this basis, the Court concludes that Warner is unable to establish the absence of a genuine dispute on the issue of damages and cannot prevail at this juncture.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb108\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 III. CONCLUSION\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 In accordance with the foregoing, it is hereby ORDERED AND ADJUDGED as follows: \
(1) Hotfile's motion for partial summary judgment for post-Complaint DMCA protection (DE 275, DE 318), Defendant Anton Titov's motion for summary judgment on personal liability (DE 276, DE 316), and Warner's motion for summary judgment as to Hotfile's counterclaim (DE 255, DE 301) are DENIED.\
(2) Plaintiffs' motion for summary judgment (DE 280, DE 322) is GRANTED as to the issues of Defendants' DMCA defense, vicarious liability, and Mr. Titov's liability. It is DENIED in all other respects.\
(3) Except to the extent addressed herein, Defendants' motions to strike Dr. Waterman's rebuttal report (DE 217); to strike Dr. Foster's reply declaration (DE 452, DE 460) and certain exhibits (DE 339) in connection with Plaintiffs' summary judgment briefing; and to strike certain exhibits in connection with Plaintiffs' opposition to Mr. Titov's summary judgment motion (DE 371), are DENIED AS MOOT. Similarly, Plaintiffs' motion to strike portions of the declarations of Dr. Andrew Cromarty, Dr. Boyle, and Mr. Titov (DE 387, DE 423) is DENIED AS MOOT.\
(4) Warner's motion to use an exhibit from Mr. Titov's deposition at trial (DE 241, DE 297) is GRANTED, and Plaintiffs' Objections to Judge Turnoff's Report and Recommendation (DE 327, DE 370) are OVERRULED. Judge Turnoff's Report and Recommendation (DE 306) is ADOPTED AND AFFIRMED.\
(5) The parties shall confer and provide to the Court proposed redactions to this Order within fourteen (14) days of the date of this Order, so that the Court can issue a public version of this decision.
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 DONE AND ORDERED.
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0  \uc0\u8232 \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 1\
As evinced by the volume of the briefing and the proceeding discussion, the parties do not agree on much, there are many facts asserted to be relevant, and the Court has been asked to weigh in on numerous unsettled legal issues.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 2\
This case revolves around emerging technologies, which requires the Court to give an overview of the relevant concepts. The parties have provided more comprehensive information and more sophisticated analyses, which are on file with the Court. (See, e.g., Foster Decl. (DE 325-17).)\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 3\
The amounts paid per file - no more than $0.015 - are small, but in aggregate have resulted in the payment of millions of dollars to affiliates. Prior to 2012, Hotfile also paid website owners a five percent commission based on the number of users who purchased premium subscriptions to Hotfile and had been referred by such websites.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 4\
Systems with similar capabilities have faced careful scrutiny. For instance, in the late 1990s and early 2000s, copyright owners brought numerous successful challenges to peer-to-peer file networks, which coordinated the transmission of media stored on users' computers directly to other users, imposing liability on the network operators for the conduct of their users. See, e.g., Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Studios, Inc. v. Grokster, Ltd., 545 U.S. 913 (2005); A&M Records, Inc. v. Napster, Inc., 239 F.3d 1004 (9th Cir. 2001); Arista Records LLC v. Lime Group LLC, 784 F. Supp. 2d 398 (S.D.N.Y. 2011) ("Lime Group"). The system challenged most recently, Megaupload Limited, shuttered its service in early 2012 and is facing potential criminal and civil liability in the United States. See Ben Sisario, 7 Charged as F.B.I. Closes a Top File-Sharing Site, N.Y. Times, Jan. 19, 2012, at B1. While the parties have found it convenient to compare Hotfile to these systems, the Court predicates its decision on the facts and law presented by this record.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 5\
As explained in more detail below, courts have squarely rejected the Studios' position that generalized evidence of infringement, such as Dr. Waterman's study, forecloses the statutory safe harbor protection afforded by the DMCA and necessitates a finding of liability. Although the Studios cite to dicta supporting the proposition that the goals of the DMCA are inconsistent with rewarding those who knowingly contribute to infringement (but mean to protect innocent actors who are engaged in beneficial applications of technology), a litigant must point to evidence of known infringement particular to works that they own. For instance, in Viacom Int'l, Inc. v. YouTube, Inc., 676 F.3d 19 (2d Cir. 2012), the Second Circuit found that a defendant could not be said to have awareness of infringement where an internal survey revealed that 75 to 80 percent of all content on the system was infringing.  Id. at 32-34 . As another case recently summarized, "knowledge of the prevalence of infringing activity, and welcoming it, does not itself forfeit the safe harbor. To forfeit that, the provider must influence or participate in the infringement." Viacom Int'l, Inc. v. YouTube, Inc., No. 07 Civ. 2103 (LLS), [2013 ILRC 1681], 2013 WL 1689071 , at *5 (S.D.N.Y. Apr. 18, 2013). Outside the scope of the DMCA, general knowledge of infringement is a factor supporting secondary liability for infringement but cannot establish such liability on its own.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 6\
No other Plaintiffs appear to have done so.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 7\
The DMCA sets out a notice protocol under which copyright holders can notify an agent responsible for the service of claimed infringement. See17 U.S.C. \'a7 512(c)(3); Hendrickson v. eBay, Inc., 165 F. Supp. 2d 1082, 1089 (C.D. Cal. 2001). The statute also allows service providers to challenge infringement designations through a counter-notification process.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 8\
The fact that these users were few in number but had a large aggregate impact (particularly with respect to downloaded files) accounts for the discrepancies between the parties' proffered statistics, as does the fact that the Studios focus only on total downloading activity. For instance, Hotfile argues that only four percent of files ever uploaded have been the subject of a DMCA notice; that three percent have been removed by copyright holders under Hotfile's Special Rightsholder Account program; that the most popular downloads are not copyrighted; and that 56 percent of the files uploaded have never been downloaded. Further, because Hotfile made significant changes to its system after this lawsuit was filed, including implementing a three-strikes policy and various fingerprinting technologies to seek out infringing content, additional discrepancies are attributable to the time period analyzed. Supported by post-Complaint data, Hotfile asserts it has been more proactive in identifying and removing infringing files and users.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 9\
While Titov stated in his declaration that the technology was implemented in August 2009, his deposition testimony is not consistent with that assertion.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 10\
Lemuria was formed one month after Hotfile's previous Internet service provider informed the company that it had received a large number of infringement complaints from copyright holders and two months after a copyright holder served a subpoena on that Internet service provider. (Yeh. Decl. Ex. 1 (Titov Dep.) at 119:13-121(DE 288-2 (filed under seal); DE 324-2).) The Studios contend that Lemuria was formed to prevent the consequences of a third-party Internet service provider cutting off Hotfile's service and that Lemuria acts as a front for Hotfile's commercial activity. Hotfile denies these allegations.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 11\
Warner contends that it would not have been "practicable for Warner to download files prior to issuing a notification of infringement" because of the computing resources required. (Kaplan Decl. \'b6 17 (DE 301-6).) Additionally, some of the files in the counterclaim were reviewed by a Warner vendor called LeakID, which . ( Id. \'b6 20.)\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 12\
This is different from a situation where a plaintiff claims that a service provider must look for repeat infringers who open accounts under new pseudonyms. Cf. Io Grp., Inc. v. Veoh Networks, Inc., 586 F. Supp. 2d 1132, 1144-45 (distinguishing A&M Records, Inc. v. Napster, Inc., No. C99-05183 MHP, [5 ILRD 418], 2000 WL 573136 (N.D. Cal. May 12, 2000), which found that failure to block users' Internet Protocol addresses created a question whether the policy was reasonable). In CCBill, there was no dispute that the defendant implemented a policy by which it kept a DMCA log indicating the name and e-mail address of the webmaster for each site to which it provided service.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 13\
Hotfile claims that it "had no knowledge that the file[s]-in-suit were infringing apart from notifications Hotfile [might] have received from the Studios regarding these alleged infringements." (Titov Decl. \'b6 6. (DE 321-1) (emphasis added).)\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 14\
Courts agree that Section 512(i) requires terminating known repeat infringers. See CC Bill, 488 F.3d at 1113 ("A policy is unreasonable only if the service provider failed to respond when it had knowledge of the infringement."); Ellison, 357 F.3d at 1080 .\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 15\
The Court also notes that most of the "robust" steps Hotfile claims to have taken to prevent repeat infringement relate to its handling of particular files and not their users. Hotfile's SRA program is legally insufficient because, by its plain language, Section 512(i) requires user termination, thereby targeting future infringement from an individual who is deemed likely to recidivate. See Cybernet Ventures, Inc., 213 F. Supp. 2d at 1176 ("[S]ection 512(i) is focused on infringing users, whereas 512(c) is focused primarily on the infringing material itself."). More particularly, while Section 512(c) requires service providers to remove infringing material, Section 512(i) targets the source of that infringement. See id . ("Making the entrance into the safe harbor too wide would allow service providers acting in complicity with infringers to approach copyright infringement on an image by image basis without ever targeting the source of these images." (citation omitted)).\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 16\
This was contrary to the district court's conclusion that the defendants were entitled to summary judgment and its reasoning that distributing the software "did not provide the distributors with actual knowledge of specific acts of infringement."  Id. at 927 (citing district court decision).\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 17\
Similar to the appellate court's holding, prior precedent in the Eleventh Circuit concluded that Sony/Betamax applies to all forms of contributory liability. Cable/Home Comm'n Corp. v. Network Prods., Inc., 902 F.2d 829, 845 (11th Cir. 1990) ("Contributory infringement will not be found if the product in question is capable of 'substantial noninfringing uses,' the determinative issue in Sony, and clarified in that case as wide use 'for legitimate, unobjectionable purposes.'" (quoting Sony/Betamax, 464 U.S. at 442 )).\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 18\
Ultimately, on remand, the district court entered summary judgment in favor of the plaintiffs on the issue of liability. Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Studios, Inc. v. Grokster, Ltd., 454 F. Supp. 2d 966, 999 (C.D. Cal. 2006).\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 19\
The decision reasoned that Grokster answered the question of inducement liability but failed to determine "whether the Ninth Circuit had been correct in granting summary judgment on the contributory infringement claim."  Id. at 433 . The concurring opinions in Grokster debated whether the noninfringing uses identified by the defendants were sufficient to merit summary judgment, but agreed that the Sony/Betamax rule continues to act as a defense to contributory infringement.  Id. at 433 (citing concurring opinions); see also Alfred C. Yen, Torts and the Construction of Inducement and Contributory Liability in Amazon and Visa, 32 Colum J.L. & Arts 513, 513 (2009) ("In [Grokster], the Supreme Court adopted intentional inducement as a cause of action for third party copyright liability. Before Grokster, such liability existed in two forms, contributory liability and vicarious liability... Now, after Grokster, a defendant also faces liability if she acts with the object of promoting infringement by others." (footnote omitted)). Other decisions have suggested that two categories of contributory infringement liability exist - "actively encouraging (or inducing infringement through specific acts... or [] distributing a product distributees use to infringe copyrights, if the product is not capable of 'substantial' or 'commercially significant' noninfringing uses" - and that Sony/Betamax serves as a defense where the latter is asserted. Amazon.com, Inc., 508 F.3d at 1170 (quoting Grokster, 545 U.S. at 942 (Ginsburg, J., concurring)).\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 20\
While other courts have used this distinction to decline to apply the Sony/Betamax rule, this Court includes the analysis of an ongoing relationship in the vicarious liability context. As explained below, that theory of liability examines a defendant's relationship with, and control over, direct infringers to hold the defendant liable, just as a principal may be liable for the actions of his agent.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 21\
On remand, the district court rejected the plaintiff's request for a preliminary injunction because the plaintiff failed to show that individual notices of infringement that had elicited no response were adequate to confer knowledge of infringement on Google. Perfect 10, Inc. v. Google, Inc., No. CV 04-9484 AHM (SHx), [2010 BL 316866], 2010 WL 9479060 , at *6-7 (C.D. Cal. July 30, 2010). Plaintiff also failed to show that practical and simple measures to prevent infringement were available to Google as a viable remedy. Id . at *7. Nor could the plaintiff meet the other requirements for a preliminary injunction. Id . at *14. The decision was affirmed, 653 F.3d 976 (9th Cir. 2011), and certiorari was denied by the Supreme Court, 132 S.Ct. 1713 (Mar. 5, 2012).\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 22\
The Studios contend that Hotfile is similar to other infringing networks, such as Grokster, Fung, Streamcast, Usenet.com, and LimeWire.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 23\
Based on data, Dr. Boyle concluded that there were substantial noninfringing uses in the form of open source software and movie sharing, fair use downloads, storage, and monetizing works owned by creators through the affiliate program.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 24\
For instance, as indicated in the DMCA context, Hotfile's master file policy (which removed offending links but not the actual file) may mean that Hotfile knew of particular infringing files and failed to bar further access. Hotfile will also have to explain how, in each of these instances, it was unaware of the offending nature of the activity, did not intend to contribute to it, and could not utilize existing technology to prevent infringement. Finally, to the extent that the Studios premise liability on the fact that Hotfile provided the mechanism for infringement, Hotfile has suggested Sony/Betamax-type noninfringing uses for the system, and there is a question of whether those uses are "substantial."\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 25\
Although a defendant's lack of knowledge may not affect liability in this context, it does have implications for the measure of damages available under the Copyright Act. See17 U.S.C. \'a7 504(c)(2) (providing that statutory damages may range from $750 to $30,000 per violation, but capping willful violations at $150,000 per violation); see also EMI April Music, Inc. v. White, 618 F. Supp. 2d 497, 507 (E.D. Va. 2009) (citing Nelson-Salabes, Inc. v. Morningside Dev., LLC, 284 F.3d 505, 517 (4th Cir. 2002)).\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 26\
It is important to note that Section 512(c)(1)(B) of the DMCA excludes from safe harbor those who "receive a financial benefit directly attributable to the infringing activity, in a case in which the service provider has the right and ability to control such activity." 17 U.S.C. \'a7 512(c)(1)(B). Although phrased in a similar way to the common law vicarious liability standard, courts have read it in the context of other portions of the DMCA to not foreclose protection for service providers that would be vicariously liable for users' infringing activity (without "something more than the ability to remove or block access to materials posted on a service provider's website"). Viacom, 676 F.3d at 38 (quotation omitted); UMG Recordings, Inc. v. Shelter Capital Partners LLC, 718 F.3d 1006 (9th Cir. 2013). This not only demonstrates the breadth of each prong of the common law doctrine, but also indicates that the DMCA precedent Hotfile relies on in its brief is inapplicable to the discussion here. See Capitol Records, Inc. v. MP3tunes, LLC, No. 07 Civ. 9931 (WHP), [2013 ILRC 1867], 2013 WL 1987225 , at *10 (S.D.N.Y. May 14, 2013).\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 27\
The studios explain that they have not brought suit against these shareholders because Hotfile proffered Titov as its public face and the Studios only recently discovered these shareholders' identities.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 28\
In Gerber v. Riordan, 649 F.3d 514 (6th Cir. 2011), for example, a pro se defendant filed a motion to dismiss for lack of personal jurisdiction, which was denied for procedural reasons. The defendant then obtained an attorney who entered an appearance, moved to stay pending arbitration, sought to vacate a default judgment that had been entered, opposed a request for mediation, participated in a case management and pretrial conference, sought to enforce a settlement agreement, and engaged in discovery.  Id. at 518-19 . After noting the lack of precedent in the area, the court considered whether filings and appearances that are distinct from jurisdictional challenges - such as anything that would "cause the court to go to some effort that would be wasted if personal jurisdiction is later found lacking" - waive a personal jurisdiction defense.  Id. at 519 (citations and quotation omitted). While some of those actions might have indicated that the party did not submit to the court's jurisdiction or that the defendant sought merely to postpone the case, the filing of a general appearance "constituted a voluntary acceptance of the district court's jurisdiction."\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 29\
In Rossi, which is the case cited most often in this area, the owner of a website directory sued a movie studio trade association that followed the DMCA's notice and takedown procedures, contending that any reasonable investigation of his website would have revealed that it did not link to infringing content.  Id. at 1003 . Considering Section 512(f)'s express language and interpretive case law dealing with a wide variety of similarly-worded statutes, the Ninth Circuit held that the statute employs an objective standard and ruled against the plaintiff.  Id. at 1004-05 (stating that the statute protects "potential violators from subjectively improper actions by copyright owners"). Instead of subjective knowledge of noninfringement, one of the association's members notified it of possible infringements on the subject website and the website itself suggested to users that protected movies could be downloaded by joining. Id . The clear lesson of Rossi is that "as a prerequisite to liability under section 512(f) , a defendant must have actual knowledge that it is making a misrepresentation of fact." Cabell v. Zimmerman, No. 09 Civ. 10134 (CM), [2010 BL 239629], 2010 WL 996007 , at *4 (S.D.N.Y. Mar. 12, 2010) (citations omitted).\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 30\
Rossi itself noted the fact that the defendant in that case had not actually downloaded the files, but went on to describe other compelling facts that led the defendant to believe that infringement of its works was occurring.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 31\
In that case, Stephanie Lenz, a user of the Internet video hosting site YouTube, uploaded a video of her family dancing to a song performed by the music artist Prince, which turned out to be wildly popular among viewers. Lenz I, 572 F. Supp. 2d at 1152 . The owner of the song, Universal Music Corporation, sent a takedown notice to the service provider, which notified Ms. Lenz that her video had been removed because of a claim of copyright infringement. Id . Discovery revealed that Universal had an employee who was tasked with using YouTube's system to search for titles owned or administered by Universal. Lenz IV, [2013 ILRC 1113], 2013 WL 271673 , at *1. He stated that he issued a takedown notice whenever he could recognize a one second or longer portion of a Prince song in any video, as occurred in the video at issue. Id . at *5. His boss stated that Universal seeks to remove songs "when a writer is upset or requests that particular videos be removed from YouTube," prompting Universal to conduct a review. Id .\
The court concluded that summary judgment in favor of either party was improper. Ms. Lenz could show that Universal's procedures might have willfully blinded it to knowledge of her fair use, but not that Universal subjectively believed that there was a high probability that the video was lawful or that the nature of fair use was self-evident. Id . at *6-7 (citing Viacom, 676 F.3d at 34 ). Likewise, Universal could not demonstrate the absence of subjective intent. Id . at *8.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb566\sa1133\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0          
\f0\fs42 General Information\

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 Judge(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 KATHLEEN MARY WILLIAMS\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Related Docket(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 1:11-cv-20427 (S.D. Fla.);\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Topic(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Torts; Corporate Law; Copyright Law; Technology Law\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Industries\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Computer Software; Peer-to-Peer\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Date Filed\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 2013-09-20 00:00:00\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Parties\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 DISNEY ENTERPRISES, INC., et al., Plaintiffs, v. HOTFILE CORP., et al., Defendants.\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Court\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 United States District Court for the Southern District of Florida\cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\li674\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\fs20 \cf0 Pagination \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 *
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 BL
\f1\fs24 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\li674\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Majority Opinion > 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE MIDDLE DISTRICT OF FLORIDA, TAMPA DIVISION\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0  \uc0\u8232 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 BURTON W. WIAND, ESQ., as Court-Appointed Receiver for SCOOP REAL ESTATE, L.P., et al., Plaintiff, vs. WELLS FARGO BANK, N.A., et al., Defendants. 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0  \uc0\u8232 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Case No.: 8:12-CV-557-T-27EAJ \
June 10, 2015, Filed June 10, 2015, Decided \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 For Burton W. Wiand, as Court-Appointed Receiver for Scoop Real Estate, L.P., Valhalla Investment Partners, L.P, Victory IRA Fund, LTD., Victory Fund, LTD., Viking IRA Fund, LLC, and Viking Fund, LLC., Plaintiff: Christopher Craig Casper, Sean P. Keefe, Terry Alan Smiljanich, Sean Estes, LEAD ATTORNEYS, James, Hoyer, Newcomer & Smiljanich, PA, Tampa, FL.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 For Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., as Successor-in-interest to Wachovia Bank, N.A, Defendant: Beth A. Cronin, Dale W. Cravey, LEAD ATTORNEYS, Marie Tomassi, Trenam Kemker, St Petersburg, FL; Charles M. Harris, Jr., Marvin E. Barkin, LEAD ATTORNEYS, George Elias Nader, Richard M. Hanchett, Trenam Kemker, Tampa, FL; Jason H. Baruch, LEAD ATTORNEY, Holland & Knight, LLP - Tampa, Tampa, FL.\
For Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Movant: Nicole Deese Newlon, Johnson & Cassidy, P.A., Tampa, FL.
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 ELIZABETH JENKINS, United States Magistrate Judge.
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 ELIZABETH JENKINS \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Before the Court are Defendant Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.'s ("the Bank's") Motion for an Award of Expenses Including Reasonable Attorneys' Fees, and Incorporated Memorandum of Law and Local Rule 3.01(g) Certificate (Dkt. 327), the Bank's Motion to Tax Costs Against Plaintiff and Incorporated Memorandum of Law and Local Rule 3.01(g) Certificate (Dkt. 329), Plaintiff Burton Wiand's ("the Receiver's") Opposition to [the Bank's] Motion for an Award of Expenses Including Reasonable Attorneys' Fees (Dkt. 333), and the Receiver's Opposition to [the Bank's] Motion to Tax Costs Against Plaintiff (Dkt. 334).1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Background
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Plaintiff Burton W. Wiand is the court-appointed Receiver2 for six hedge funds that lost millions of dollars during a decade-long Ponzi scheme orchestrated by Arthur Nadel ("Nadel").3 Through the course of this litigation, the Receiver has brought claims for fraud, breach of fiduciary duty, conversion, negligence, fraudulent transfer, and unjust enrichment against the Bank.4 Nadel maintained accounts at SouthTrust and Wachovia to facilitate the Ponzi scheme. On February 9, 2015, summary judgment in favor of the Bank was granted as to the Receiver's remaining claims of negligence, fraudulent transfer, and unjust enrichment based on Florida law (Dkt. 325), and final judgment in favor of the Bank was entered on February 10, 2015 (Dkt. 326).\
As the prevailing party, the Bank moves for an estimated $4 million award of attorneys' fees and for an award of costs in the amount of $63,657.47.5 (Dkt. 327, 329)\
In support of its motion for attorneys' fees, the Bank relies on contractual provisions in certain banking documents that it claims entitle the Bank to an award of attorneys' fees. The Receiver responds that the contractual provisions cited by the Bank, strictly construed, do not support an award of attorneys' fees in this action. Furthermore, even if the contractual provisions entitled the Bank to an award of fees, the Receiver contends that he has the power to reject any executory [*2] contract entered into prior to the receivership if he finds that adopting the contract would be unprofitable or undesirable. The Receiver also asserts that the Bank is not entitled to recover attorneys' fees and costs incurred in connection with the claims brought by the Noncustomer Hedge Funds. Finally, the Receiver argues that the Bank's claims for fees are claims against the receivership estate that must be filed in the Receivership Action.6 \
Additionally, the Bank, as the prevailing party, moves for taxation costs under Rule 54(d) , Fed. R. Civ. P., 28 U.S.C. \'a7 1920 , and Local Rule 4.18 , M.D. Fla. The Receiver opposes an assessment of costs, arguing that the Court should exercise its discretion by denying the Bank's request as this case was brought in good faith and an award of costs would further injure the victims of Ponzi scheme. Alternatively, if the Court were to assess costs, the Receiver contends that the Bank seeks costs that are not taxable under Rule 54(d) , Fed. R. Civ. P., and 28 U.S.C. \'a7 1920 .\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Discussion
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 A. Whether the Bank has a Contractual Entitlement to Attorneys' Fees 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 The Bank asserts that it is entitled to attorneys' fees based on certain contractual provisions in documents related to accounts and lending agreements established by the Customer Hedge Funds and Nadel.7 "Florida conforms to the 'American Rule' under which attorneys' fees are awarded only when permitted by statute or contract." Johnson Enterprises of Jacksonville, Inc. v. FPL Grp., Inc., 162 F.3d 1290 , 1329 (11th Cir. 1998) (citation omitted).\
"Under Florida law, a contractual attorney's fee provision must be strictly construed." Succar Succar v. Safra Nat'l Bank of New York, 237 F. App'x 526 , 528 (11th Cir. 2007) (per curiam) (unpublished)8 (internal quotations and citation omitted). "Florida law . . . requires contractual provisions for attorney's fees to 'unambiguously state that intention and clearly identify the matter in which the attorney's fees are recoverable . . . ." Am. Univ. of the Caribbean, N.V. v. Caritas Healthcare, Inc., 441 F. App'x 644 , 645 (11th Cir. 2011) (per curiam) (unpublished) (quoting Sholkoff v. Boca Raton Cmty. Hosp., Inc., 693 So. 2d 1114 , 1118 (Fla. 4th DCA 1997)). "[I]n Florida, as in most jurisdictions, an ambiguous contract term is construed against the drafter. This principle applies with particular force where the language was selected to benefit the drafter." Terminix Int'l Co., LP v. Palmer Ranch Ltd. P'ship, 432 F.3d 1327 , 1329 n.2 (11th Cir. 2005) (internal citations omitted). "Provisions in ordinary contracts awarding attorney's fees and costs to the prevailing party are generally enforced. Trial courts do not have the discretion to decline to enforce such provisions, even if the challenging party brings a meritorious claim in good faith." Lashkajani v. Lashkajani, 911 So.2d 1154 , 1158 (Fla. 2005).\
The Receiver asserts that the contractual provisions cited by the Bank do not entitle the Bank to attorneys' fees. The Court will address each provision separately.9 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 1. The Victory Deposit Agreement 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 The Bank contends that Paragraph 20 of the SouthTrust Bank Rules and Regulations Governing Deposit Accounts ("the Rules"), as amended effective September 4, 2001, entitles it to fees.10 On May 1, 2001, Victory opened a deposit account at SouthTrust Bank. ([*3] Dkt. 155 \'b6 5). On December 27, 2002, Nadel signed a replacement business signature card for Victory, in which he agreed, on behalf of Victory, "to abide by and be bound by" the Rules. (Dkt. 156 Ex. 2 at 4) Paragraph 20 of the Rules provides:\
\pard\pardeftab720\li539\ri539\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 20. Adverse Claim to the Account. In the event of any dispute with respect to the account, such as a dispute over who has the right to make withdrawals from the account or who is the owner of the funds on deposit to the account, and in the event of any actual or potential adverse claim to the account, we may refuse to pay any funds from the account for a reasonable time, without advance notice to you, whether or not the adverse claimant has complied with the requirements of any statute regarding adverse claims to deposits, and/or we may interplead the funds in the account in a court of appropriate jurisdiction, naming all of the claimants to the account as defendants in the action. You agree to reimburse us for all expenses, including attorneys' fees, we incur in connection with any dispute or claim, whether or not we become involved in a legal action, and you authorize us to debit the account for such amounts, without advance notice to you. We will be entitled to assert against funds in the account any claim we have against any of the depositors either before interpleading the funds or in connection with the interpleader action. If the account becomes involved in legal proceeding, we may limit your right to use the account until the dispute is resolved.\
(Dkt. 223 Ex. 1 \'b6 20)\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 While the Bank cited a condensed version of this provision in support of its argument that the provision entitles the Bank to attorney's fees, this provision, read in its entirety, relates only to adverse claims by a third party to the account. As the Receiver notes, "adverse claims" is a term of art that relates to a third-party's purported property interests in a financial asset. See U.C.C. \'a7 8-102 ("'Adverse claim' means a claim that a claimant has a property interest in a financial asset and that it is a violation of the rights of the claimant for another person to hold, transfer, or deal with the financial asset.'); see also Fla. Stat. \'a7 655.83 (addressing an adverse claim to a deposit or fiduciary account). Here, the Receiver, standing in the shoes of Victory, has not asserted any adverse claims against the Bank as a third party, and this provision in the Rules is inapposite in determining whether the Bank is entitled to attorneys' fees. Strictly construed, this provision does not entitle the Bank to attorneys' fees under the claims brought by the Receiver. Accordingly, as this provision is the only provision cited, the Bank is not entitled to recover attorneys' fees under the terms of the Rules related to the Victory deposit account.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 2. The SRE Deposit Agreement \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 The Bank also contends that a Wachovia Deposit Agreement and Disclosures for Commercial Accounts ("Deposit Agreement"), effective October 28, 2004, entitles it to an award of attorneys' fees regarding SRE. On September 25, 2007, SRE opened a deposit account at Wachovia with a signature card signed by Nadel, which provides that SRE agreed to [*4] the terms and conditions of the Deposit Agreement. (Dkt. 175 Ex. 1 at 18) The Bank relies on the following provision:\
\pard\pardeftab720\li539\ri539\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 CONFLICTS/DISPUTES INVOLVING THE ACCOUNT. If we receive an actual or potential claim from a third party regarding your account, any deposit, transfer, credit or other transaction involving your Account, or conflicting instructions or claims from authorized signers, you hereby grant to us full discretion to freeze your Account and not honor any further transactions until the claim is resolved, or we may, at our discretion, choose not to pay out any money from your account until we receive consistent instructions from all parties or a court order, all without liability to you. We may also, without liability to you, close the account and issue a check made payable to you and each authorized signor or you and each claimant, as we deem necessary, or we may interplead the funds into court. You agree to reimburse us for any loss, costs, or expenses including, without limitation, reasonable attorneys' fees and the costs of litigation (to the extent permitted by law) that we incur as a result of any dispute involving your account, and you authorize us to deduct any such loss, costs, or expenses from your account without prior notice to you. This obligation includes any dispute between you and us involving the account and situations where we become involved in any dispute between you and an authorized signor, another joint owner, or a third party claiming an interest in the account. It also includes any situation where you, an authorized signor, another joint owner, or a third party takes action with respect to the account that causes us, in good faith, to seek the advice of counsel, whether or not we actually become involved in a dispute.\
(Dkt. 159 Ex. 6 \'b6 40)\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 This provision is similar to the provision in the Victory Deposit Agreement in that it provides for the Bank's entitlement to fees in the event of claims raised by third parties. But the provision is more expansive in that it provides that the account holder "agree[s] to reimburse us for any loss, costs, or expenses including, without limitation, reasonable attorneys' fees and the costs of litigation (to the extent permitted by law) that we incur as a result of any dispute involving your account . . .. This obligation includes any dispute between you and us involving the account and situations where we become involved in any dispute between you and an authorized signor, another joint owner, or a third party claiming an interest in the account" ( Id.) While the Bank asserts that the language "any dispute between you and us involving the account" supports an award of attorneys' fees, the provision, in its entirety, is ambiguous as to whether it applies to any claims or only those claims involving third-party disputes. The paragraph primarily addresses claims involving third parties, and the initial sentence and the final sentence of the provision discuss only third-party claims. Therefore, a reasonable interpretation of the contractual provision as a whole is that it provides for fees [*5] incurred only regarding third-party disputes. As the Bank likely drafted the Deposit Agreement, any ambiguity must be resolved against the Bank. See generally Terminix, 432 F.3d at 1329 n.2. Paragraph 40 does not support an award of attorneys' fees for the Bank.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 3. The SRE Loan Documents \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 The Bank relies on provisions contained within a BB&T promissory note and mortgage documents signed January 4, 2005 (Dkt. 162 Ex. 1) and a Rite Aid promissory note signed May 23, 2005 and mortgage documents signed on May 24, 2005 (Dkt. 164 Ex. 1) in support of an award of attorneys' fees. These documents were executed by Nadel on behalf of SRE.\
The Bank relies on the following provision in the promissory notes:\
\pard\pardeftab720\li539\ri539\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 ATTORNEYS' FEES AND OTHER COLLECTION COSTS. Borrower shall pay all of Bank's reasonable expenses incurred to enforce or collect any of the Obligations including, without limitation, reasonable arbitration, paralegals', attorneys' and experts' fees and expenses, whether incurred without the commencement of a suit, in any trial, arbitration, or administrative proceeding, or in any appellate or bankruptcy proceeding.\
(Dkt. 162 Ex. 1 at 2; Dkt. 164 Ex. 1 at 2) Obligations "refers to any and all indebtedness and other obligations under this Note, all other obligations under any other Loan Document(s), and all obligations under any swap agreements (as defined in 11 U.S.C. \'a7 101 ) between Borrower and Bank, or its affiliates, whenever executed." (Dkt. 162 Ex. 1 at 2; Dkt. 164 Ex. 1 at 2)\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Also, the Bank relies on the following two provisions contained within its Security Agreements with SRE:\
\pard\pardeftab720\li539\ri539\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 1.11. Actions by Mortgagee to Preserve the Security of this Mortgage. If [Mortgagor/Grantor] fails to make any payment or do any act as and in the manner provided for in this [Mortgage/Deed of Trust] or the Note, Mortgagee, in its own discretion, without obligation so to do and without notice to or demand upon [Mortgagor/Grantor] and without releasing [Mortgagor/Grantor] from any obligation, may make or do the same in such manner and to such extent as [Mortgagee/Lender] may deem necessary to protect the security hereof. [Mortgagor/Grantor] will pay upon demand all expenses incurred or paid by [Mortgagee/Lender] (including, but not limited to, attorneys' fees and court costs including those of appellate and bankruptcy proceedings) on account of the exercise of any of the aforesaid rights or privileges or on account of any litigation which may arise in connection with this [Mortgage/Deed of Trust] or the Note or on account of any attempt, without litigation, to enforce the terms of this [Mortgage/Deed of Trust] or the Note. In case the [Mortgaged Property/Property] or any part thereof shall be advertised for foreclosure sale and not sold, [Mortgagor/Grantor] shall pay all costs in connection therewith.\
6.14. Costs. [Mortgagor/Grantor] shall pay all and singular the costs, charges and expenses, including without limitation attorneys' fees, paralegals' fees, sales tax on such fees or costs, if any (regardless of whether suit is or other proceedings are instituted, and for all arbitration, administrative, bankruptcy and other proceedings) [*6] and abstract costs, reasonably incurred or paid at any time by [Mortgagee/Lender] because of the failure of [Mortgagor/Grantor] to perform, comply with, and bide by each and every stipulation, agreement, condition and covenant of the Note, this [Mortgage/Deed of Trust] or any other document executed herewith.\
(Dkt. 162 Ex. 1 at 14, 28; Dkt. 164 Ex. 1 at 8-9, 31)\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Here, the Receiver's claims under FUFTA were to void the transfers and security interests and loan payments that were already transferred, not to enforce or collect any obligations as to any current or future indebtedness. The Bank's defense of these claims is not implicated by these provisions. Additionally, the provisions of the security agreements pertain to actions the Bank must take if SRE failed to comply with the mortgage terms or its obligations under the agreement; they do not apply to recovery of fees for defending fraudulent transfer claims. Accordingly, these provisions are not applicable to the Receiver's claims in this action. See, e.g., Commerce First Fin., LLC v. Summerlin Bass, LLC, No. 2:10-CV-290-FTM-36, [2011 BL 418779], 2011 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 119117 , 2011 WL 7316326 , at **2-3 (M.D. Fla. Sept. 13, 2011) (declining to award attorneys fees because "an action for fraudulent transfer is not an action to collect or to secure any obligation under the Promissory Note" and "[t]his lawsuit for fraudulent transfer is not a foreclosure action or a remedy under the terms of the Mortgage or Note") report and recommendation adopted, No. 2:10-CV-00290-FTM-36, [2011 BL 265767], 2011 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 119121 , 2011 WL 4902988 (M.D. Fla. Oct. 14, 2011).\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 4. Laurel Preserve Loan Documents \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 The Laurel Preserve agreement was entered into between the Bank's predecessor in interest, Wachovia Bank, and Laurel Preserve, LLC ("Laurel Preserve"). Laurel Preserve is not a party to this action as the Receiver did not bring claims on behalf of Laurel Preserve. Because the Receiver did not bring claims on behalf of Laurel Preserve in this action, these loan documents are irrelevant to the Bank's claim for attorneys' fees.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 5. Assertion that all claims are inextricably intertwined \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 The Bank also asserts that it is entitled to recover its attorneys' fees for the claims brought on behalf of the non-customer Hedge Funds because the claims are inextricably intertwined, citing Moralez v. Whole Foods Mkt., Inc., No. C 12-01072 CRB, [2013 BL 203980], 2013 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 107666 , 2013 WL 3967639 , at *3 (N.D. Cal. July 31, 2013). (Dkt. 327 at 10-11) It is true that contractual language that permits fees for proceedings or litigation "arising out of this Contract" applies to all claims "inextricably intertwined" with the contract. Dolphin LLC v. WCI Comms., Inc., 715 F.3d 1243 , 1250-51 (11th Cir. 2013). However, courts in this district have declined to award fees for the entire litigation when only certain claims provided for an award of fees. See Durden v. Citicorp Trust Bank, FSB, 763 F. Supp. 2d 1299 , 1307 (M.D. Fla. 2011) ("Nevertheless, it is also apparent that although the services performed and fees rendered were often intertwined, Defense counsel also 'spent a separate and distinct amount of time' in some respects on the non-FSIPA fraud claims."); Action Sec. Serv., Inc. v. Am. Online, Inc., No. 603-CV-1170-ORL-22DAB, [2007 BL 219374], 2007 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 4668 , 2007 WL 191308 , at *2 (M.D. Fla. Jan. 23, 2007) ("The Court finds that AOL is not entitled to fees for the entire case, but is only entitled to such [*7] fees as it can show are related to the civil theft count-the only claim for which it has asserted entitlement.") aff'd sub nom., 241 F. App'x 619 (11th Cir. 2007). Here, the Bank seeks only a determination as to its entitlement to fees; the Bank has not provided any documentary evidence in support of the amount of fees it seeks.\
In any event, as discussed above, the contractual provisions cited by the Bank do not entitle it to an award of fees. Even if one or more of the contractual provisions supported the Bank's claim of an award of fees, the Bank has not demonstrated that fees incurred on account of the claims brought on behalf of the Non-Customer Hedge Funds are so intertwined that they cannot be distinguished in a fee petition.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 B. Whether the Receiver Can Repudiate the Agreements the Bank Cites \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 In the alternative, even if one or more of the provisions supports the Bank's fees claim, the Receiver maintains that he has repudiated these provisions and previously rejected the enforceability of the contracts' provisions. The Receiver contends that the provisions for attorneys' fees can be classified as executory contracts which a receiver is entitled to repudiate.\
The Receiver states that he "has tacitly rejected the Deposit Agreements in previous filings by challenging the enforceability of their provisions" and that he has consistently rejected the SRE loan documents. (Dkt. 333 at 16) Even if this is true, while it is one thing to permit the Receiver to repudiate executory contracts which he determines are unprofitable or undesirable within a reasonable period of time after being appointed,11 it is quite another to permit the Receiver to repudiate contracts at this late stage of the litigation where the Receiver is potentially liable for substantial attorneys' fees.\
In any event, because the contractual provisions do not support the Bank's claims for attorneys' fees, it is unnecessary to address this argument further.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 C. Motion for Costs \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 In its motion, the Bank seeks recovery of the following costs: (1) clerk fees in the amount of $350.00; (2) service of process fees in the amount of $1,869.91; (3) court reporter and deposition costs in the amount of $40,346.92; (4) witness fees in the amount of $1,746.14; and (5) printing and copying costs in the amount of $19,344.50. The total amount of costs sought by the Bank is $63,657.47.\
The Receiver contends that the Court should exercise its discretion by not assessing costs as the Receiver brought this action in good faith and any award of costs would diminish amounts returned to the investors defrauded by Nadel.\
"Unless a federal statute, these rules, or a court order provides otherwise, costs -- other than attorney's fees -- should be allowed to the prevailing party." Rule 54(d)(1), Fed. R. Civ. P. "[T]he word 'should' makes clear that the decision whether to award costs ultimately lies within the sound discretion of the district court." Marx v. Gen. Revenue Corp., \'a0\'a0\'a0 U.S. \'a0\'a0\'a0, 133 S. Ct. 1166 , 1172 , 185 L. Ed. 2d 242 (2013) (citation omitted). "[T]he district court's discretion not to award the full amount of costs incurred by the prevailing party is not unfettered, since denial of costs is in the nature of [*8] a penalty for some defection on [the prevailing party's] part in the course of the litigation." Chapman v. AI Transp., 229 F.3d 1012 , 1039 (11th Cir. 2000) (internal quotations and citations omitted). "To defeat the presumption and deny full costs, a district court must have and state a sound basis for doing so." Id . \
Although the Receiver contends that he brought this action in good faith in an effort to recover money for defrauded investors, an award of costs in this case is appropriate as a denial of costs would penalize the Bank as a prevailing party. In bringing this action, the Receiver was aware that he could be responsible for an assessment of costs in the event he did not prevail, despite any good faith in the merits of his claims. Therefore, the Bank is entitled to an award of costs as the prevailing party.\
Not all of the costs sought by the Bank are taxable. Rule 54(d), Fed. R. Civ. P ., allows for recovery of those costs enumerated in 28 U.S.C. \'a7 1920 ("\'a7 1920 "). Arlington Cent. Sch. Bd. of Educ. v. Murphy, 548 U.S. 291 , 301 , 126 S. Ct. 2455 , 165 L. Ed. 2d 526 (2006). The following costs may be taxed by a judge or clerk of any federal court:\
\pard\pardeftab720\li539\ri539\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 (1) Fees of the clerk and marshal; (2) Fees for printed or electronically recorded transcripts necessarily obtained for use in the case; (3) Fees and disbursements for printing and witnesses; (4) Fees for exemplification and the costs of making copies of any materials where the copies are necessarily obtained for use in the case; (5) Docket fees under section 1923 of this title; (6) Compensation of court appointed experts, compensation of interpreters, and salaries, fees, expenses, and costs of special interpretation services under section 1828 of this title.\
28 U.S.C. \'a7 1920 . A court can only award costs that are adequately described and documented. Scelta v. Delicatessen Support Servs., Inc., 203 F. Supp. 2d 1328 , 1340 (M.D. Fla. 2002). The prevailing party has the burden of establishing that costs are taxable. See id . \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 1. Clerk Fees \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 The Bank seeks $350.00 for the fee incurred in removing this action to federal court. The Receiver does not object to this cost, and it is properly taxable under Section 1920(1) .\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 2. Costs for Service of Process \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 The Bank seeks $1,869.91 for costs incurred for private process servers. The Receiver contends that the Bank improperly seeks taxation of costs for rush service and for costs in excess of $45.00.\
Private process server fees may be taxed pursuant to \'a7 1920 provided that the amount does not exceed the statutory fee of the U.S. Marshal authorized by 28 U.S.C. \'a7 1921 . U.S. E.E.O.C. v. W&O, Inc., 213 F.3d 600 , 624 (11th Cir. 2000). The Receiver incorrectly states that $45.00 is the maximum amount available for service of process as that is the $45.00 statutory fee authorized for service by the U.S. Marshal. 28 U.S.C. \'a7 1921(c)(2) permits the Attorney General to establish the amount the U.S. Marshal may assess for service of process, which is set forth in 28 C.F.R. \'a7 0.114 . From December 19, 2008 to October 30, 2013, the fee for service of process by the U.S. Marshal was $55.00 per hour, plus travel costs and any other out-of-pocket expenses; effective October 30, 2013, the fee increased to $65.00 per hour. SeeRevision to United States Marshals Service Fees for Services, 78 Fed. Reg. 59817 -01 (Sept. 30, 2013). The amount of service of process by the U.S. Marshal may exceed the per-hour amount [*9] charged if it takes additional time to for the U.S. Marshal to serve process. However, when the documentation from a private process server does not indicate the time expended to effectuate service or does not indicate the additional costs incurred by the private process server, courts limit recovery to the hourly rate charged by the U.S. Marshal for service. See James v. Wash Depot Holdings, Inc., 242 F.R.D. 645 , 649-50 (S.D. Fla. 2007). Accordingly, any service of process without supporting documentation of time spent and additional costs effectuated before October 30, 2013 is limited to recovery of $55.00, while service of process effectuated on or after that date is limited to recovery of $65.00.\
Additionally, the Receiver objects for the "Rush Fee" associated with service of six subpoenas. The Receiver asserts that this amount is $50.00 when compared with the amount associated with non-rushed service of process. While any fee for rush service is not compensable, the Court will limit the Bank's recovery to the minimum U.S. Marshal fee in effect at the time process was effectuated, which was $55.00 at the time five subpoenas were served and $65.00 at the time one subpoena was served. See Palma v. Safe Hurricane Shutters, Inc., 895 F. Supp. 2d 1268 , 1271 n.2 (S.D. Fla. 2012) (noting that amount charged for certain subpoenas designated as "rush" was within the amount charged by the U.S. Marshal).\
Next, the Receiver objects in part to a $55.25 witness fee for Neil Moody which is included on the invoice from the process server. (Dkt. 328 Ex. 1 at 30) The maximum witness fee is $40.00. 28 U.S.C. \'a7 1821 . As the Bank has not provided detail or documentation as to the amount paid in excess of $40.00, the Bank should recover the maximum $40.00 witness fee.\
Additionally, the Receiver objects to a charge of $19.66 for shipping overnight to the process server in Colorado the subpoena for Neil Moody. "Generally, delivery costs and express mail are not compensable under \'a7 1920 ." Ivory v. Holme, No. 8:07-CV-2354-T-TBM, [2009 BL 93733], 2009 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 40590 , 2009 WL 1185309 , at *2 (M.D. Fla. Apr. 30, 2009). Reimbursement of this cost is inappropriate.\
Finally, the Receiver objects to the service of process for Gianluca Morello. Premier Process Service attempted to serve a trial subpoena on September 18, 2014 but Mr. Morello's wife stated that he was out of town. (Dkt. 328 Ex. 1 at 29) On September 19, 2014, the process server was instructed to discontinue service. The Receiver asserts that this subpoena was not "necessarily for use in the case" and is not taxable. However, the docket shows that on August 15, 2014, Judge Whittemore entered an order stating that the case would be tried in Tampa beginning October 20, 2014 before the Honorable Michael H. Watson. (Dkt. 277) On October 8, 2014, the trial was rescheduled for December 1, 2014. (Dkt. 304) As the trial was still set for October 20, 2014 when service was attempted on Mr. Morello, the Court concludes that this cost is taxable even though service of process was not effectuated upon Mr. Morello.\
Accordingly, the amount for service of process should be reduced by $234.91 to account for fees in excess of the U.S. Marshal rate, the excessive witness fee, and the shipping charge. The Bank is entitled to costs [*10] for service of process in the amount of $1,635.00 under \'a7 1920(3) .\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 3. Court Reporter and Deposition Costs \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 "Fees for printed or electronically recorded transcripts necessarily obtained for use in the case" may be taxed under \'a7 1920(2) . The Bank seeks $40,346.92 for costs expended in depositions, deposition videos, transcripts, and hearing transcripts. While the Receiver does not contest that all of the depositions were at least partially necessary for this case, he objects to certain costs that the Bank seeks. Specifically, the Receiver objects to an assessment of costs for optional services, costs for both transcripts and videotaped copies of the same deposition, and costs for pretrial hearing transcripts.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 i. Optional Services \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 "Where the deposition costs were incurred for the prevailing parties' convenience, such as to aid in thorough preparation or for the purposes of investigation only, the costs are not recoverable." Watson v. Lake Cnty., 492 F. App'x 991 , 996 (11th Cir. 2012) (per curiam) (unpublished). The Receiver objects to the costs for shipping, exhibits, videotaped copy, expedited transcription, syncronized video, additional transcripts, DepoDisk/LitPack, summary, and condensed transcript as solely for the convenience of counsel are not reimbursable and requests that the amount be reduced by $8,187.45. (Dkt. 334 Ex. 1)\
The Receiver correctly states that shipping costs related to the depositions are not taxable. See Watson, 492 F. App'x at 997 . Charges for expedited transcripts, condensed transcripts, and synchronized video depositions are not taxable under \'a7 1920 . See Tampa Bay Water v. HDR Eng'g, Inc., No. 8:08-CV-2446-T-27TBM, [2012 BL 288702], 2012 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 157631 , 2012 WL 5387830 , at *19 (M.D. Fla. Nov. 2, 2012). Additionally, costs of DepoDisk/LitPack are not taxable. See Powell v. The Home Depot, U.S.A., Inc., No. 07-80435-CIV, [2010 BL 370448], 2010 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 110301 , 2010 WL 4116488 , at *9 (S.D. Fla. Sept. 14, 2010) (denying assessment of costs for scanning, disk copies, mini-scripts, and CD litigation packages as extra services only for the convenience of counsel) report and recommendation adopted, [2010 BL 400524], 2010 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 110300 , 2010 WL 4102933 (S.D. Fla. Oct. 18, 2010). Furthermore, the costs for an additional transcript and for a summary are inappropriate as these are solely for the convenience of counsel. See Kidd v. Mando Am. Corp., 870 F. Supp. 2d 1297 , 1299 (M.D. Ala. 2012).\
"Where a party properly notices a videotaped deposition and no objection was made, it is appropriate to award costs for videotaping and transcribing the deposition." Tampa Bay Water v. HDR Eng'g, Inc., No. 8:08-CV-2446-T-27TBM, [2012 BL 288702], 2012 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 157631 , 2012 WL 5387830 , at *19 (M.D. Fla. Nov. 2, 2012) (citing Morrison v. Reichhold Chems., Inc., 97 F.3d 460 , 464-65 (11th Cir. 1996)). Accordingly, the Bank's request for videotaped copies is appropriately taxed. Additionally, the Bank's request for costs for exhibits to deposition transcripts is appropriate under \'a7 1920(4) . See id . ("In this document-intensive case, copies of exhibits were necessary for understanding and accurately preserving the testimony of the dozens of fact and expert witnesses that were deposed.").\
Therefore, the Bank's requests for costs related to deposition transcription should be reduced by $6,731.06, the total of costs sought for non-reimbursable items.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 ii. Deposition Transcripts \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 The remainder of the costs sought by the Bank for depositions [*11] relate to costs incurred for deposition transcripts. The costs of deposition transcripts are authorized by \'a7 1920(2) . See Scelta, 203 F. Supp. 2d at 1341 (citing W&O, Inc., 213 F.3d at 620 ). After deducting the amounts sought for non-reimbursable optional services, discussed supra, at (C)(3)(I), the total costs incurred by the Bank for deposition transcripts amount to $32,653.86.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 iii. Pretrial Hearing Transcripts \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 The Bank seeks costs for transcripts from certain pretrial hearings. "Movants seeking to tax the cost of pretrial hearing transcripts must show that the pretrial hearings for which transcript costs are sought limited and clarified issues which were to be heard at a lengthy trial and were of a magnitude that a transcript was needed to determine how the trial would proceed." Ferguson v. Bombardier Servs. Corp., No. 8:03-CV-539-T-30MSS, [2007 BL 226371], 2007 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 103254 , 2007 WL 601921 , at *4 (M.D. Fla. Feb. 21, 2007). In its motion, the Bank states that it "obtained transcripts of hearings in this case and of Arthur Nadel's bail hearing, all of which were necessarily obtained for use in this case." (Dkt. 329 at 9) However, the Bank has not met this burden in demonstrating how these transcripts limited or clarified issues, and the assessment of costs for the pretrial hearing transcripts is improper. The amount for transcription costs should be reduced by $962.00.\
Accordingly, the Bank is entitled to transcription costs related to depositions in the amount of $32,653.86 pursuant to \'a7 1920 .\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 4. Witness Fees \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 The Bank seeks $1,746.14 for costs incurred in paying witnesses to attend depositions or trial. The Receiver does not object to these costs except for the excessive fee requested for Neil Moody, discussed supra, at (C)(2).\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 5. Costs of Printing and Copying \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 The Bank seeks $19,344.50 for printing and copying of papers necessarily obtained for use in this case. The Receiver objects to all of the printing and copying costs sought by the Bank.\
"[I]n evaluating copying costs, the court should consider whether the prevailing party could have reasonably believed that it was necessary to copy the papers at issue." W&O, Inc., 213 F.3d at 623 . Copies attributable to discovery are recoverable under \'a7 1920(4) . Id . The Bank states that it incurred four charges for printing documents related to document production and to print out the Receiver's expert reports and exhibits. Despite the Receiver's objection that the Bank has failed to itemize these costs, the documentation is sufficient.\
The Receiver also objects to the Bank's request for $14,381.56 for costs incurred relating to e-discovery. The Bank cites Akanthos Capital Mgmt., LLC v. CompuCredit Holdings Corp., 2 F. Supp. 3d 1306 , 1318 (N.D. Ga. 2014) for the proposition that e-discovery costs such as uploading documents to a database and converting electronic digital files to native format are taxable. However, the Akanthos court held that those costs may be taxable. 2 F. Supp. 3d at 1318 . Additionally, the Akanthos court, recognizing that "[t]he Eleventh Circuit has not decided whether e-discovery costs are taxable as necessary copies," determined that the prevailing party was not entitled to an award of e-discovery costs.  Id. at 1313 , 1318 . Accordingly, the e-discovery costs sought by [*12] the Bank, which includes charges for data uploading, monthly data hosting, and "Tech Time Related to QC," are not taxable costs under \'a7 1920 .\
Finally, the Bank seeks costs for an invoice it attributes to trial exhibits. (Dkt. 328 Ex. 4 at 50) The invoice includes charges for printing of 25,335 pages, twenty-four binders, and 300 tabs. The costs for binders and tabs are not taxable. See Awwad v. Largo Med. Ctr., Inc., No. 8:11-CV-1638-T-24TBM, [2013 BL 332693], 2013 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 168894 , 2013 WL 6198856 , at *6 (M.D. Fla. Nov. 27, 2013). Therefore, the amount taxable for this invoice should be reduced by $1,035.00.\
Accordingly, the Bank is entitled to an award of $3,927.94 in costs related to printing and copying.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Conclusion\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 The Bank is entitled to costs under \'a7 1920 in the amount of $40,312.94, subject to the approval of the court in the Receivership Action. The Bank also requests that those costs not taxable under 28 U.S.C. \'a7 1920 be assessed as expenses under the contractual provisions cited in its motion for attorneys' fees. As the Court has concluded that the contractual provisions relied on by the Bank do not entitle it to an award of attorneys' fees, it follows that the provisions do not allow for an award of expenses that are not awardable as costs.\
Accordingly and upon consideration, it is RECOMMENDED that:\
\pard\pardeftab720\li539\ri539\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 (1) Defendant's Motion for an Award of Expenses including Reasonable Attorneys' Fees, and Incorporated Memorandum of Law and Local Rule 3.01(g) Certificate (Dkt. 327) be DENIED; and\
(2) Defendant's Motion to Tax Costs Against Plaintiff and Incorporated Memorandum of Law and Local Rule 3.01(g) Certificate (Dkt. 329) be GRANTED in part and DENIED in part in that the Bank be awarded $40,312.94 in costs, subject to the approval of the court in the Receivership Action.\
DATE: June 10, 2015\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 /s/ Elizabeth Jenkins\
ELIZABETH JENKINS\
United States Magistrate Judge\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0  \uc0\u8232 \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 1\
These motions have been referred to the undersigned for consideration and issuance of a Report and Recommendation. (Dkt. 327) See 28 U.S.C. \'a7 636(b)(1)(B) ; Local Rules 6.01(b) and 6.01(c) , M.D. Fla.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 2\
The Receiver was appointed by United States District Judge Richard A. Lazzara in S.E.C. v. Nadel, Case No. 8:09-CV-87-T-26TBM (M.D. Fla. Jan. 21, 2009) (the "Receivership Action").\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 3\
Scoop Real Estate, L.P. ("SRE") and Victory Fund, LTD. ("Victory Fund") are referred to as the "Customer Hedge Funds," while Valhalla Investment Partners, L.P, Victory IRA Fund, LTD., Viking IRA Fund, LLC, and Viking Fund, LLC ("Viking Fund") are referred to as the "Noncustomer Hedge Funds." Nadel opened accounts at Wachovia Bank ("Wachovia") for the Customer Hedge Funds in his capacity as president of the general partner of the hedge funds. Nadel fraudulently opened accounts for Noncustomer Hedge Funds Valhalla Investment Partners, L.P. and Viking Fund at Wachovia. (Dkt. 37 at 5) Accordingly, those entities with accounts fraudulently opened by Nadel are not customers of Wachovia. ( Id.) No accounts were opened in the name of Victory IRA Fund, Ltd. or Viking IRA Fund, LLC. ( Id.)\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 4\
Wells Fargo is successor-in-interest to Wachovia, and Wachovia is successor-in-interest to SouthTrust Bank. Wells Fargo merged with Wachovia on December 31, 2008. Wachovia merged with SouthTrust Bank in 2004. "It is undisputed that Wells Fargo is now responsible for any liability that Wachovia or SouthTrust may have incurred." Wiand v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., 938 F. Supp. 2d 1238 , 1242 n.1 (M.D. Fla. 2013).\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 5\
The Bank seeks an initial determination of fees entitlement and requests an opportunity to provide evidentiary support at a later date. (Dkt. 327 at 12)\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 6\
It is true that any award of fees and/or costs must ultimately be approved by the court having jurisdiction in the Receivership Action. However, the instant motion addresses the threshold question of entitlement to fees.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 7\
The Court has jurisdiction over this case pursuant to 28 U.S.C. \'a7 1348 as the Receiver brought his claims against the Bank at the direction of an officer of the United States. (Dkt. 21) The parties cite both federal and Florida law in support of their positions regarding an award of attorneys' fees in this case; whether federal or Florida law applies in this case does not appear to be a material issue, although the parties have not addressed this issue in their submissions.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 8\
Unpublished opinions of the Eleventh Circuit Court of Appeals are not considered binding precedent; however, they may be cited as persuasive authority. 11th Cir. R. 36-2 .\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 9\
While avoiding excessive block quotations is preferred, each contractual provision needs to be quoted in full to properly address the grounds upon which the parties make their arguments. The Receiver includes a side-by-side comparison of the Bank's quoted provisions and the complete provisions in its response. (Dkt. 333 at 4-5, 8-9)\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 10\
The Bank submitted, for the first time, the SouthTrust Bank Rules and Regulations in support of its objections to the Report and Recommendation regarding the Bank's motion to strike jury trial demand. (Dkt. 223 Ex. 1) Although the Receiver contends that the document was improperly withheld during discovery, the Receiver is now on notice as to this document.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 11\
A "receiver is not bound to adopt the contracts, accept the leases, or otherwise step into the shoes of his assignor, if, in his opinion, it would be unprofitable or undesirable to do so; and he is entitled to a reasonable time to elect whether to adopt or repudiate such contracts." U.S. Trust Co. v. Wabash W. Ry. Co., 150 U.S. 287 , 299-300 , 14 S. Ct. 86 , 37 L. Ed. 1085 (1893).\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb566\sa1133\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0          
\f0\fs42 General Information\

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 Judge(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Elizabeth A. Jenkins\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Related Docket(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 8:12-cv-00557 (M.D. Fla.);\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Topic(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Civil Procedure; Damages & Remedies\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Industries\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Hedge Funds\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Date Filed\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 2015-06-10 00:00:00\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Parties\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 BURTON W. WIAND, ESQ., as Court-Appointed Receiver for SCOOP REAL ESTATE, L.P., et al., Plaintiff, vs. WELLS FARGO BANK, N.A., et al., Defendants.\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Court\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 United States District Court for the Middle District of Florida\cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\li674\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\fs20 \cf0 Pagination \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 *
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 B.R. 
\f1\fs24 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 **
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 BL
\f1\fs24 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\li674\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Majority Opinion > 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 U.S. District Court, Southern District of Florida\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0  \uc0\u8232 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 SNP BOAT SERVICE S.A., Appellant, v. HOTEL LE ST. JAMES, Appellee. 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0  \uc0\u8232 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 0:11-cv-62671-KMM \
April 18, 2012 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 [*777] K. MICHAEL MOORE, District Judge. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb108\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 ORDER\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 THIS CAUSE is before the Court on an appeal from the Bankruptcy Court's October 19, 2011 Final Judgment on Order Denying with Prejudice Motion for Entry of Order Entrusting M/Y Sixty Five to Foreign Representative for Administration in French Bankruptcy (Sauvegarde) Proceeding. This Court has jurisdiction over the appeal pursuant to 28 U.S.C. \'a7 158(a)(1) and Fed. R. Bankr. P. 8001. For the reasons stated herein, the Bankruptcy Court's Judgment is affirmed-in-part, reversed-in-part, and remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this Opinion.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb108\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 FACTUAL BACKGROUND\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 A. The French (and Canadian) Connection\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Debtor-Appellant SNP Boat Service S.A. ("SNP") is a corporation organized under the laws of France. In addition to designing luxury boats, SNP provides brokerage, charter, and boat management services associated with its principal line of business. Appellee Hotel Le St. James ("St. James") is a corporation organized under the laws of Canada. In May 2008, SNP executed a contract for the sale of a vessel to a third party. The terms of the contract required SNP to accept the trade-in of the M/Y Saint James-a separate vessel owned by St. James-and credit \'80 2,500,000 to St. James' account upon delivery.\
The M/Y Saint James was ultimately delivered to SNP; however, SNP took issue with the condition of the vessel. SNP claimed the vessel "had not been delivered in good maintenance and operating condition." Appellant's Br., at 3 (ECF No. 12). SNP also claimed that it had not received proper documentation upon the delivery of [*778] the vessel. Consequently, on October 22, 2008, SNP informed St. James that the terms of the contract had not been fulfilled and SNP would not be crediting St. James' account pursuant to the terms of the contract. St. James disputed SNP's conclusion that St. James had breached the contract in a letter it sent to SNP approximately two days later.\
The emerging contract dispute between SNP and St. James then took on a decisively international flavor. On October 27, 2008, SNP initiated an action against St. James in the Commercial Court of Cannes, France (the "French proceeding"). On November 6, 2008, St. James initiated a separate action against SNP in the Court of Montreal in Canada (the "Canadian proceeding"). At the Canadian proceeding, SNP argued that the Court of Montreal lacked both personal jurisdiction over SNP and subject matter jurisdiction to consider St. James' breach of contract claim. The Canadian courts denied SNP's jurisdictional arguments at both the trial and appellate level.\
On April 7, 2009, the French Commercial Court approved a French sauvegarde proceeding for SNP. The goals of a sauvegarde proceeding are to "facilitate the reorganization of the debtor in order to pursue its commercial activity, to maintain its employments and to repay its debts." Appellant's Br., at 2-3. Often compared to reorganization under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, a sauvegarde proceeding imposes an automatic stay [**2] on any legal proceeding initiated by creditors of the debtor. 1  The French Supreme Court has held that this automatic stay has an international effect. 2  On August 25, 2009, St. James submitted an unsecured claim in the sauvegarde proceeding for the price of the M/Y Saint James, plus interest, damages, and other costs.\
As the French sauvegarde proceeding was taking place, the Canadian proceeding was also progressing. After SNP's jurisdictional arguments were rejected, SNP's Canadian counsel withdrew. The Superior Court of Quebec served notice on SNP and SNP's Foreign Representative that the Court would enter judgment against SNP should SNP not obtain replacement counsel and defend itself in the Canadian litigation. SNP failed to defend itself, and on October 16, 2009, the Superior Court of Quebec entered a default judgment in the amount of CAD $4,047,500 in favor of St. James and against SNP (the "Canadian judgment").\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb108\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 B. Coming to America\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 At some point after obtaining the Canadian judgment St. James learned SNP had assets located in Florida, and on February 17, 2010, St. James domesticated the Canadian Judgment in Broward County, Florida. Shortly thereafter, the Broward County Sheriff's office seized two of SNP's vessels-the M/Y Sixty Five and the M/Y [*779] Foursome-pursuant to a writ of execution issued by the state court. Before the vessels could be sold to satisfy St. James' judgment, however, the French Commercial Court designated Pierre-Louis Ezavin as administrator of SNP, and on April 6, 2010, Ezavin filed a Chapter 15 Petition in U.S. Bankruptcy Court seeking recognition of the French sauvegarde proceeding as a "foreign proceeding" pursuant to 11 U.S.C. \'a7 1515.\
On April 28, 2010, the bankruptcy court formally recognized the French sauvegarde proceeding as a foreign main proceeding and Ezavin as SNP's foreign representative. Pursuant to 11 U.S.C. \'a7 362, the bankruptcy court also ordered a stay with respect to the sale of any SNP property located within the United States. Finally, the court released the M/Y Sixty Five to Ezavin's custody, but prohibited the vessel from leaving the Southern District of Florida and ordered that any transfer or sale of the vessel was subject to court approval.\
One week later, SNP motioned the bankruptcy court to enter an order finding the M/Y Sixty Five subject to the jurisdiction of the French Commercial Court sauvegarde proceeding, and entrusting the M/Y Sixty Five to Ezavin (the "Entrustment Motion"). St. James opposed the motion on several grounds. A hearing was scheduled for June 8, 2010, but was ultimately continued to August 9, 2010 due to concerns the bankruptcy court had regarding international comity. Complicating matters, on June 17, 2010, the French Commercial Court entered a declaratory judgment finding SNP not liable for the \'80 2,500,000 price of the M/Y Saint James.\
On August 9, 2010, the bankruptcy court granted SNP's Motion to Continue the Entrustment Motion Hearing. The court also ordered the parties to attend a second settlement conference, 3  which was to take place on September 7, 2010. The bankruptcy court ordered that Ezavin [**3] and a senior SNP representative with authority to bind SNP appear in person at the September 7, 2010 settlement conference. A status conference was then scheduled for the day after the settlement conference, at which time matters of discovery and scheduling were to be discussed.\
St. James then served a request for production on SNP, seeking, inter alia, all documents filed in the sauvegarde proceeding; and translations of all pleadings in the sauvegarde proceeding. At the same time St. James served the request upon SNP, St. James motioned the bankruptcy court to shorten SNP's deadline to respond to the production request. The court granted St. James's Motion, before granting SNP's motion for reconsideration; limiting the scope of the production request to a docket sheet of the sauvegarde proceeding along with select documents from the docket sheet; and continuing the settlement conference to November 2010.\
The November settlement conference resulted in an impasse and on November 8, 2010, the Parties had a status conference with the bankruptcy court. At the status conference, St. James continued to argue that further discovery was needed, and for the first time the existence of a French blocking statute was brought to the attention of the bankruptcy court. Before [*780] the status conference adjourned, the bankruptcy court rejected SNP's suggestion that pre-discovery summary judgment could resolve the action, and the parties agreed to hold another conference with the bankruptcy court on December 2, 2010 to discuss the scope of discovery, a timeline for discovery, and to further examine the effect of the French blocking statute. 4  Not satisfied with the bankruptcy court's decision to postpone summary judgment until after discovery, on November 22, 2010, SNP filed a Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings in Connection with its Entrustment Motion.\
At the December 20, 2010 status conference, the Parties argued SNP's Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings, and discussed the need for further discovery. The effect of the French blocking statute was also discussed. Counsel for St. James informed the bankruptcy court that France has a blocking statute, which, as counsel for St. James described it, "makes discovery in France not pursuant to the Hague Convention a criminal act." Dec. 20, 2010 Hr'g, at 37 (ECF No. 2-24). The bankruptcy court then denied without prejudice SNP's Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings, directed the Parties to appear for a status conference on December 17, 2010 with an agreed upon discovery plan, and urged the Parties to find a way to conduct discovery in a manner compliant with the French blocking statute. At the December 17, 2010 conference before the bankruptcy court, the Parties agreed that St. James would be able to depose representatives of SNP in late March 2011. The depositions would take place outside of France to avoid violating the French blocking statute.\
To prepare for the March 2011 depositions, St. James served document requests upon Ezavin and SNP in early February 2011. Before responding to St. [**4] James' requests, on March 10, 2011 SNP filed a Motion for a Protective Order. In its Motion, SNP sought to preclude the depositions of several SNP representatives. SNP, pursuant to the advice of new counsel, argued that attempting to circumvent the French blocking statute outside of France would constitute fraud in France, and doing so could subject the representatives of SNP to civil or criminal penalties. SNP proposed that St. James initiate an action in France and have all discovery supervised by the French courts in accordance with the Hague Convention.\
Approximately three weeks after filing its Motion for a Protective Order, SNP responded to St. James' document requests. SNP informed St. James that no documents would be produced. The scope of St. James' requests had led SNP to believe St. James was attempting to re-litigate the original sauvegarde proceeding, 5  which, SNP argued, was improper because St. James had filed an appeal with [*781] the French Appellate Courts. Furthermore, St. James already had the opportunity to obtain discovery in the sauvegarde proceeding and was now barred by "res judicata, collateral estoppel, and principles of comity." Appellant's Br., at 10.\
After receiving SNP's response, St. James concluded that SNP was "intentionally delay[ing] proceedings, and play[ing] games with the discovery process." St. James' Mot. to Dismiss, at 1 (ECF No. 2-30). Accordingly, on April 5, 2011, St. James filed a motion which argued that the French blocking statute did not bar discovery in the U.S. bankruptcy court action, and requested that the bankruptcy court deny with prejudice SNP's Entrustment Motion and dismiss the proceeding as a sanction for SNP's alleged misconduct. In the alternative, St. James requested that the bankruptcy court compel SNP and Ezavin to "properly respond to discovery."  Id. at 14.\
On April 22, 2011, the bankruptcy court held a hearing on St. James' Motion for Sanctions and SNP's Motion for a Protective Order. At the outset of the hearing, the bankruptcy court warned SNP that it was "powerfully close" to dismissing the case for "lack of cooperation on the part of the foreign representative" and that it was contemplating "other significant rulings, including denying the motion for an order seeking turnover of the vessel." Appellee's Br., at 9. The bankruptcy court noted the "distinct impression" it had that SNP was neither cooperating nor proceeding in good faith. Appellee's Br., at 9. The bankruptcy court then entertained counsels' arguments regarding SNP's alleged misconduct, the applicability of the French blocking statute, and whether due process had been afforded to St. James in the French sauvegarde proceeding.\
On June 30, 2011, the bankruptcy court issued an Order (1) Denying SNP's Motion for Protective Order, (2) Denying SNP's Entrustment Motion, and (3) Granting in-Part & Denying in-Part St. James' Motion for Sanctions. Citing to U.S. Supreme Court precedent, the bankruptcy court held that the French blocking statute did not deprive the bankruptcy court of its power to order the Parties to engage in discovery. The bankruptcy court [**5] then cautioned SNP that if discovery was not conducted prior to an August 19, 2011 status conference "so that [the] court may determine whether due process was afforded in the French proceedings," the bankruptcy court would "conclude that the order granting recognition of the foreign main proceeding was improvidently entered ... revoke recognition of the foreign main proceeding, and ... abstain from [the] matter under 11 U.S.C. \'a7 305." June 30, 2011 Order, at 4 (ECF No. 2-25).\
Approximately one month later, SNP filed a motion requesting the bankruptcy court to clarify whether the June 30, 2011 Order precluded depositions from being held in France or Monaco. SNP also requested that the bankruptcy court continue the August 19, 2011 status conference to September due to the month-long August holiday in France. On August 4, 2011, the bankruptcy court denied SNP's motion after having accused SNP of filing the motion as "an apparent tactical maneuver to present the court with a fait accompli in late August." Appellant's Br., at 13.\
At the August 19, 2011 status conference, SNP once again argued that the French blocking statute precluded discovery outside the scope of the Hague Convention, and that the bankruptcy court lacked authority to inquire whether St. James was afforded due process in the French sauvegarde proceedings. The bankruptcy court disagreed and notified the parties that it intended to deny with prejudice SNP's Entrustment Motion and [*782] abstain from the action. On October 20, 2011, the bankruptcy court denied with prejudice SNP's Entrustment Motion, directed the U.S. Marshals Service to take possession of the M/Y Sixty Five from Ezavin and transfer it to the Broward County Sheriff's office, and dismissed the case.\
SNP now appeals the Bankruptcy Court's Order and presents the following issues: \
(1) Whether the bankruptcy court, for the purposes of ruling on SNP's Entrustment Motion, erred by insisting on discovery that would enable it to determine whether St. James was afforded due process in the sauvegarde proceeding;\
(2) Whether the bankruptcy court erred when it concluded that the French blocking statute did not pose an obstacle to compelling the depositions of SNP representatives; and\
(3) Whether the bankruptcy court erred by dismissing the proceeding as a sanction.
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb108\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 DISCUSSION\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 A. Standard of Review\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 "The district court must accept the bankruptcy court's factual findings unless they are clearly erroneous, 'but reviews a bankruptcy court's legal conclusions de novo.'" In re Englander, 95 F.3d 1028, 1030 (11th Cir. 1996). "Under de novo review, [a] Court independently examines the law and draws its own conclusions after applying the law to the facts of the case, without regard to decisions made by the Bankruptcy Court." In re Brown,> No. 6:08-cv-1517-Orl-18DAB, [2008 BL 260054], 2008 WL 5050081 , at * 2 (M.D. Fla. Nov. 19, 2008) (citing In re Piper Aircraft Corp.,> 244 F.3d 1289, 1295 (11th Cir. 2001)). A bankruptcy court's order on discovery is reviewed for abuse of discretion, In re Piper Aircraft Corp.,> 362 F.3d 736, 738 (11th Cir. 2004), as is a bankruptcy court's order dismissing a proceeding as a sanction. See Goforth v. Owens,> 766 F.2d 1533, 1535-36 (11th Cir. 1985) ("In dismissing [**6] plaintiff's action with prejudice under Rule 41(b), the trial court acted within the bounds of its discretion.").\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb108\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 B. The Bankruptcy Court's Inquiry into the French Sauvegarde Proceeding\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 On April 20, 2005, President George W. Bush signed into law the Bankruptcy Abuse Prevention and Consumer Protection Act of 2005 ("BAPCPA"), Pub. L. No. 109-8, 119 Stat. 23 (Apr. 20, 2005). Title VIII of BAPCPA repealed \'a7 304 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code and replaced it with Chapter 15 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. The express purpose of Chapter 15 is to "incorporate the Model Law on Cross-Border Insolvency so as to provide effective mechanisms for dealing with cases of cross-border insolvency." 11 U.S.C. \'a7 1501(a). A Chapter 15 action is initiated by filing a petition for recognition of a foreign proceeding under section 1515 . Id. \'a7 1504 .\
Upon recognition of a foreign proceeding, section 1521(a) provides a bankruptcy court the power to grant "any appropriate relief' requested by a foreign representative. This relief includes "entrusting the administration or realization of all or part of the debtor's assets within the territorial jurisdiction of the United States to the foreign representative or another person ... authorized by the court," 11 U.S.C. \'a7 1501(a)(5), and "entrust[ing] the distribution of all or part of the debtor's assets located in the United States to the foreign representative or another person... authorized by the court, provided that the court is satisfied that the interests of creditors in the United States are sufficiently protected." Id. \'a7 1501(b) (emphasis added). "In other words, \'a7 1521(a)(5) allows [*783] the foreign representative to collect property in the United States, and \'a7 1521(b) allows the foreign representative to distribute the property in the foreign case, provided that creditors in the U.S. are sufficiently protected pursuant to \'a7 1521(b) and \'a7 1522(a) ." In re Atlas Shipping A/S, 404 B.R. 726 , 740 (Bankr. S.D.N.Y. 2009). Thus, it would appear that pursuant to section 1521 , a bankruptcy court is, without qualification, empowered to allow a foreign representative to collect property in the United States, but is only empowered to allow a foreign representative to distribute that property in the foreign proceeding if the bankruptcy court is satisfied that "the interests of creditors in the United States are sufficiently protected." Complicating the distinction section 1521(b) draws between U.S. creditors and non-U.S. creditors, however, is section 1522(a) , which provides that, "The court may grant relief under section 1519 or 1521 ... only if the interests of the creditors and other interested entities, including the debtor, are suffi ciently protected." 11 U.S.C. \'a7 1522(a).\
SNP argues the bankruptcy court, for the purposes of ruling on SNP's Entrustment Motion, erred by insisting on discovery that would enable it to determine whether St. James was afforded due process in the sauvegarde proceeding. Framed a different way, SNP essentially argues that the bankruptcy court erred by compelling discovery to determine whether St. James' interests-as a creditor-were "sufficiently protected" in the French sauvegarde proceeding. At issue is whether section 1522(a) affords [**7] St. James-as a foreign creditor  6 -the same protection section 1521(b) affords U.S. creditors. St. James claims that section 1522(a) creates an "overriding 'sufficient protection' analysis that applies to all [section] 1521 entrustment actions." Appellee's Br., at 18. SNP disputes St. James' claim, arguing that section 1522(a) merely reflects a "general statement of the principle protection of local interests." Appellant's Reply Br., at 6 (ECF No. 18).\
The Model Law on Cross-Border Insolvency ("Model Law") of the United Nations Commission on International Trade Law, which Chapter 15 was designed to incorporate, 7  states the following regarding sections 1521(b) and 1522(a) : \
It should be noted that the Model Law contains several safeguards designed to ensure the protection of local interests before assets are turned over to the foreign representative. Those safeguards include the following: the general statement of the principle of protection of local interests in article 22, paragraph 1; the provision in article 21, paragraph 2, that the court should not authorize the turnover of assets until it is assured that the local creditors' interests are protected; and article 22, paragraph 2, according to which the court may subject the relief that it grants to conditions it considers appropriate. 8 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 [*784] United Nations Comm'n on Int'l Trade Law, Model Law on Cross-Border Insolvency with Guide to Enactment, 30th Sess., U.N. Doc. A/CN 9/442 \'b6 157 (1997) (emphasis added). This language-appearing to reflect an intent to protect purely local interests-is tempered, however, by the Model Law's later discussion regarding section 1522(a) : \
The idea underlying article 22 is that there should be a balance between relief that may be granted to the foreign representative and the interests of the persons that may be affected by such relief. ... In many cases the affected creditors will be "local" creditors. Nevertheless, in enacting article 22, it is not advisable to attempt to limit it to local creditors. Any express reference to local creditors in paragraph 1 would require a definition of those creditors. An attempt to draft such a definition (and to establish criteria according to which a particular category of creditors might receive special treatment) would not only show the difficulty of crafting such a definition but would also reveal that there is no justification for discriminating creditors on the basis of criteria such as place of business or nationality. Id. at \'b6 157 (emphasis added). Thus, according to the Model Law, a bankruptcy court must be satisfied that local creditors' interests are "sufficiently protected" before allowing a foreign representative to distribute property in a foreign proceeding, and though not an express requirement, is not precluded from satisfying itself that foreign creditors' interests are "sufficiently protected" before allowing a foreign representative to distribute property in a foreign proceeding. This interpretation is consistent with the "'exceedingly broad'" authority provided to the bankruptcy court to grant "'any appropriate [**8] relief.'" In re Atlas Shipping A/S,> 404 B.R. at 739 (quoting LEIF M. CLARK, ANCILLARY & OTHER CROSS-BORDER INSOLVENCY CASES UNDER CHAPTER 15 OF THE BANKRUPTCY CODE, \'a7 7[2], at 70 (2008)). Thus, it was within the bankruptcy court's discretion to ensure St. James was sufficiently protected before granting SNP's Entru stment Motion.
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 SNP argues that even if the bankruptcy court had discretion to ensure that St. James' interests were sufficiently protected before ruling on the Entrustment Motion, the bankruptcy court exceeded its authority by ordering discovery to determine whether St. James' interests were sufficiently protected in the specific French sauvegarde proceeding. According to SNP, the bankruptcy court's actions constituted "nothing less than appellate oversight of a specific French bankruptcy proceeding." Appellant's Br., at 20. St. James disputes this claim, and argues that the discovery order was appropriate for other reasons even if the bankruptcy court had no authority to inquire into the specific French sauvegarde proceeding.\
As several courts have noted, though Chapter 15 replaced \'a7 304 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, "many of the principles underlying \'a7 304 remain in effect under chapter 15." In re Atlas Shipping A/S, 404 B.R. at 739 ; see also In re Artimm, S.r.L., 335 B.R. 149 , 159-60 (Bankr. C.D. Cal. 2005) ("[T]he chapter 15 regime looks somewhat different from that applicable to this case under \'a7 304 . However, there is one provision that is strikingly similar. As under \'a7 304 , \'a7 1521(b) authorizes the court, upon the request of the foreign representative, to entrust the distribution [*785] of all or part of the debtor's U.S. assets to the foreign representative."); Leif M. Clark & Karen Goldstein, Sacred Cows: How to Care for Secured Creditors' Rights in Cross-Border Bankruptcies, 46 TEX. INT'L L.J. 513 , 524 (2011) ("Not surprisingly, the case law under former \'a7 304 is still relevant to the interpretation of Chapter 15, especially as it concerns the remedies available to a foreign representative once recognition has been granted."). Like the old \'a7 304 , and in many ways to an even greater degree, Chapter 15 directs courts to be guided by principles of comity. Compare11 U.S.C. \'a7 304 (repealed 2005) ("In determining whether to grant relief under subsection (b) of this section, the court shall be guided by what will best assure an economical and expeditious administration of such estate, consistent with ... (5) comity. ..."), with11 U.S.C. \'a7 1507 ("In determining whether to provide additional assistance under this title or under other laws of the United States, the court shall consider whether such additional assistance [is] consistent with the principles of comity. ..."), and id. \'a7 1509(b) ("If the court grants recognition under section 1517 , and subject to any limitations that the court may impose consistent with the policy of this chapter ... a court in the United States shall grant comity or cooperation to the foreign representative.").\
In Victrix S.S. Co., S.A. v. Salen Dry Cargo A.B., 825 F.2d 709 (2d Cir. 1987), the Second Circuit considered to what degree principles of comity require a U.S. court to defer to a foreign bankruptcy proceeding. Victrix, a Panamanian corporation, [**9] had entered into an agreement with Salen, a Swedish corporation, for the charter of Victrix's ship, the M/V Ploto. Subsequent to their agreement, Salen filed for bankruptcy in Sweden and ceased making payments to Victrix. Seeking to recover damages, Victrix pursued arbitration against Salen in London. Salen did not appear, and instead directed Victrix to file any claim it had with the bankruptcy estate in Sweden.  Id. at 711 .\
After obtaining a British judgment in the amount of the London arbitration award, Victrix commenced an in personam admiralty action in the district court for the Southern District of New York by attaching an account Salen had that was located in New York. At the same time, Victrix obtained a New York state court order of attachment against the same funds already attached in the admiralty action. Salen removed the state action to federal district court, where Victrix motioned the court to confirm the London arbitration award and Salen cross-motioned the court to vacate the attachment. The district court ultimately ruled in favor of Salen and vacated the attachment.  Id. at 711-12 .\
On appeal, the Second Circuit affirmed the district court. Addressing the issue of comity within the context of section 304 cross-border insolvency proceedings, the Second Circuit highlighted the need to extend comity to foreign bankruptcy proceedings, noting that "[t]he equitable and orderly distribution of a debtor's property requires assembling all claims against the limited assets in a single proceeding; if all creditors could not be bound, a plan of reorganization would fail."  Id. at 713-14 . The court explained how Congress embodied this belief in section 304 , before stating that "[u]nder general principles of comity as well as the specific provisions of section 304 , federal courts will recognize foreign bankruptcy proceedings provided the foreign laws comport with due process and fairly treat claims of local creditors."  Id. at 714 .\
Thus, in Victrix,> the Second Circuit looked only to whether the "foreign laws" at issue comported with due process and not whether the specific individual proceeding [*786] afforded due process. Id .; see also Cunard Steamship Co. v. Salen Reefer Servs. A.B., 773 F.2d 452 (2d Cir. 1985) (analyzing Swedish bankruptcy law to determine whether the foreign bankruptcy proceeding should be accorded comity); In re Metcalfe & Mansfield Alternative Invs., 421 B.R. 685 , 697 (Bankr. S.D.N.Y. 2010) (holding that a U.S. bankruptcy court "is not required to make an independent determination about the propriety of individual acts of a foreign court."). To inquire into a specific foreign proceeding is not only inefficient and a waste of judicial resources, but more importantly, necessarily undermines the equitable and orderly distribution of a debtor's property by transforming a domestic court into a foreign appellate court where creditors are always afforded the proverbial "second bite at the apple." Chapter 15's directive that courts be guided by principles of comity was intended to avoid such a result. St. James is no more entitled [**10] to SNP's assets than any other creditor of SNP outside the determinations of the foreign insolvency proceeding. Thus, it was an abuse of the bankruptcy court's discretion to order discovery for the purposes of determining whether St. James' interests were sufficiently protected in the specific French sauvegarde proceeding. St. James has not advanced the argument that creditors' interests are not sufficiently protected under French sauvegarde law and this Court has no reason to determine otherwise. In concluding that jurisdiction is limited to a determination that French sauvegarde proceedings generally are sufficient to protect creditors' interests, it follows that a bankruptcy court is without jurisdiction to inquire whether a par ticular creditor's interests are sufficiently protected in any specific foreign proceeding.\
St. James is incorrect to argue that discovery was proper for the purposes of determining to which country comity should be extended in light of the "unique situation the bankruptcy court ... faced-that it was being asked to choose between granting comity to Canada or granting comity to France." Appellee's Br., at 20. The French Sauvegarde proceeding commenced on April 7, 2009, and imposed an automatic stay on any legal proceeding initiated by creditors of the debtor. It was not until after St. James specifically consented to the jurisdiction of the French Courts-by submitting an unsecured claim in the sauvegarde proceeding-that the Superior Court of Quebec entered a default judgment in favor of St. James. Comity, the goals of Chapter 15, and the "public policy of ensuring equitable and orderly distribution of local assets of a foreign bankrupt" dictate that domestic courts "generally recognize foreign judgments and proceedings where the creditor voluntarily submitted to the foreign court's jurisdiction." Victrix,> 825 F.2d at 715 . 9 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb108\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 C. The French Blocking Statute\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Notwithstanding the bankruptcy court's purpose for ordering discovery, [*787] SNP claims that the bankruptcy court's June 30, 2011 Order requiring representatives of SNP to be deposed was improper in light of the French blocking statute. "It is well settled that [the French blocking statute does] not deprive an American court of the power to order a party subject to its jurisdiction to produce evidence even though the act of production may violate that statute." Soci\'e9t\'e9 Nationale Industrielle A\'e9rospatiale v. U.S. Dist. Court for the S. Dist. of Iowa,> 482 U.S. 522, 544 n.29 (1987) (citing Soci\'e9t\'e9 Internationale Pour Participations Industrielles et Commerciales, S.A. v. Rogers, 357 U.S. 197, 204-06 (1958)). As the Supreme Court has noted, deferring to such a statute would "engraft a rule of first resort onto the Hague Convention," "provide the nationals of such a country with a preferred status in our courts," and would otherwise appear to "represent an extraordinary exercise of legislative jurisdiction by the Republic of France over a United States district judge." Id . SNP's attempt to distinguish well established precedent based on its claim that French authorities [**11] are only now enforcing the statute does not change the sovereignty considerations underlying the Supreme Court's analysis of the French blocking statute. Therefore, the bankruptcy court did not abuse its discretion when it disregarded the French blocking statute and ordered that representatives of SNP be deposed.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb108\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 D. The Bankruptcy Court's Dismissal of the Chapter 15 Proceeding as a Sanction\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Finally, SNP argues that the bankruptcy court abused its discretion when it dismissed the Chapter 15 proceeding as a discovery sanction. Though it is true that SNP's conduct leaves much to be desired, it is also true that throughout the course of the eighteen month bankruptcy proceeding, only one discovery order was entered. Indeed, once the bankruptcy court issued its June 30, 2011 Order-the first time the bankruptcy court definitively ruled the French blocking statute had no force-SNP began complying with discovery. The bankruptcy court, however, perceived SNP's subsequent Motion for Reconsideration-which requested the bankruptcy court to clarify its order and continue the deadline for conducting discovery-as a dilatory tactic and dismissed the Chapter 15 proceeding as a sanction.\
"The severe sanction of a dismissal or default judgment is appropriate only as a last resort, when less drastic sanctions would not ensure compliance with the court's orders." Malautea v. Suzuki Motor Co.,> 987 F.2d 1536, 1542 (11th Cir. 1993) (citing Navarro v. Cohan,> 856 F.2d 141, 142 (11th Cir.1988)). The bankruptcy court's Order Denying SNP's Entrustment Motion with Prejudice does not explore or otherwise discuss how a lesser sanction would fail to ensure compliance with the court's orders. This omission, when combined with this Court's determination that the bankruptcy court exceeded its jurisdiction when it inquired into SNP's French sauvegarde proceeding, leads this Court to conclude that the bankruptcy court abused its discretion when it denied SNP's Entrustment Motion with Prejudice as a sanction.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb108\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 CONCLUSION\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 In light of the foregoing, the bankruptcy court's orders are affirmed-in-part and [*788] reversed-in-part. The bankruptcy court acted within its discretion when it disregarded the French blocking statute and ordered that the representatives of SNP be deposed. The bankruptcy court, however, abused its discretion when it ordered discovery to determine whether St. James' interests were sufficiently protected in the specific French sauvegarde proceeding. Furthermore, the bankruptcy court abused its discretion when it dismissed SNP's Entrustment Motion with Prejudice as a sanction.\
Accordingly, the Bankruptcy Court's Final Judgment and Order Denying with Prejudice Motion for Entry of Order Entrusting M/Y Sixty Five to Foreign Representative, both dated October 20, 2011, are hereby VACATED. The Bankruptcy Court's Discovery Order dated June 30, 2011 is REVERSED, and this matter is REMANDED for further proceedings not inconsistent with this Opinion. The Clerk of the Court is instructed to CLOSE this case.\
DONE AND ORDERED.
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0  \uc0\u8232 \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 1\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 See Adam Gallagher, The Need for a New Overhaul of French Insolvency Law to Facilitate Debt-Equity Swaps, AM. BANKR. INST. J., Apr. 2010, at 22 ("In France, the Business Safeguard Act of 2005 made significant changes to the law that was applicable to distressed companies, with the aim of promoting the recovery of ailing companies. These changes notably included the introduction of safeguard proceedings (proc\'e9dure de sauvegarde), said to be inspired by chapter 11."); see also WEIL, GOTSHAL & MANGES LLP, COMPARATIVE GUIDE TO RESTRUCTURING PROCEDURES 2012, at 48-60 (2012), available athttp://business-financerestructuring.weil.com/wp-content/uploads/2012/03/Comparative-Study.pdf (comparing French sauvegarde proceedings with U.S. Chapter 11 proceedings).\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 2\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Cour de cassation [Cass.] [supreme court for judicial matters] 1e civ., Dec. 19, 1995, Bull. civ. I, No. 93-20-424 (Fr.).\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 3\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 On July 20, 2010, SNP and St. James were scheduled to engage in a court-ordered settlement conference before United States Bankruptcy Judge Erik P. Kimball. Ezavin appeared telephonically, and the parties reached an impasse. In his report following the failed settlement conference, Judge Kimball stated that he believed Ezavin's failure to appear in person "was a material cause of the parties' failure to reach an agreement." Appellee's Br., at 4 (ECF No. 17).\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 4\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Blocking statutes consist of "legislation that is specifically designed to prevent domestic individuals or corporations from having to comply with U.S. discovery production requests." Kristen A. Knapp, Enforcement of U.S. Electronic Discovery Law Against Foreign Companies: Should U.S. Courts Give Effect to the EU Data Protection Directive?, 10 RICH. J. GLOBAL L. & BUS. 111 , 122 (2010). Such statutes traditionally prohibit "'the disclosure, copying, inspection, or removal of documents located in the territory of the enacting state in compliance with orders of foreign authorities,' and all such statutes 'appear to carry some penal sanction.'" Id. (quoting RESTATEMENT (THIRD) OF FOREIGN RELATIONS LAW OF THE UNITED STATES \'a7 442 n.4 (1987)).\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 5\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Among St. James' requests was a request for "English translations of all documents submitted to or relied upon by the Commercial Court of Cannes, France in considering SNP's plan of reorganization of its debts in the Sauvegarde." St. James' Mot. to Dismiss, at 28 (ECF No. 2-30).\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 6\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 St. James is a Canadian corporation whose only connection to the United States arises from the domestication of a Canadian judgment. Though St. James holds a U.S. judgment, under such circumstances, it is not a "U.S. claimant" for purposes of Chapter 15. See In re Atlas Shipping A/S, 404 B.R. 726 , 741 (Bankr. S.D.N.Y. 2009).\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 7\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 See11 U.S.C. \'a7 1501 ("The purpose of this chapter is to incorporate the Model Law on Cross-Border Insolvency. ..."); see also id. \'a7 1508 ("In interpreting this chapter, the court shall consider its international origin. ...").\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 8\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 References in the Model Law to "article 22, paragraph 1" correspond to section 1522(a) , while references to "article 21, paragraph 2" correspond to section 1521(b) , and references to "article 22, paragraph 2" correspond to section 1522(b) .\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 9\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 As the Supreme Court has stated: \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 [I]t follows that every person who deals with a foreign corporation impliedly subjects himself to such laws of the foreign government, affecting the powers and obligations of the corporation with which he voluntarily contracts, as the known and established policy of that government authorizes. To all intents and purposes, he submits his contract with the corporation to such a policy of the foreign government, and whatever is done by that government in furtherance therance of that policy, which binds those in like situation with himself, who are subjects of the government, in respect to the operation and effect of their contracts with the corporation, will necessarily bind him. He is conclusively presumed to have contracted with a view to such laws of that government, because the corporation must of necessity be controlled by them, and it has no power to contract with a view to any other laws with which they are not in entire harmony.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Canada Southern Ry. Co. v. Gebhard,> 109 U.S. 527, 537-38 (1883). It is also worth noting that upon recognition of a foreign proceeding, 11 U.S.C. \'a7 1509(b) specifically provides that a court shall grant comity to the "foreign representative" and says nothing regarding comity toward "foreign creditors."\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb566\sa1133\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0          
\f0\fs42 General Information\

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 Judge(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 KEVIN MICHAEL MOORE\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Related Docket(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 0:11-cv-62671 (S.D. Fla.);\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Topic(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Bankruptcy Law; International Trade Law\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Industries\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Marine\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Date Filed\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 2012-04-18 00:00:00\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Parties\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 SNP BOAT SERVICE S.A., Appellant, v. HOTEL LE ST. JAMES, Appellee.\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Court\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 United States District Court for the Southern District of Florida\cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\li674\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\fs20 \cf0 Pagination \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 *
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 BL
\f1\fs24 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\li674\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 United States District Court, M.D. Florida \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 PARKERVISION, INC., Plaintiff, vs. QUALCOMM INCORPORATED, Qualcomm. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 QUALCOMM INCORPORATED, Counterclaim Plaintiff, vs. PARKERVISION, INC. and STERNE, KESSLER, GOLDSTEIN & FOX, PLLC, Counterclaim Defendants. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 CASE NO. 3:11-cv-719-J-37-TEM. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 July 17, 2013. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
ORDER 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\
Thomas E. Morris, Magistrate Judge 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\
This case is before the Court on ParkerVision's Motion to Compel Expert Discovery (Doc. #255, "Motion to Compel") and Qualcomm's Response to ParkerVision's Motion to Compel Expert Discovery (Doc. #267, "Response"). ParkerVision seeks to compel Qualcomm to produce expert reports, deposition transcripts, and trial transcripts from previous cases in which Qualcomm's experts, Dr. Tim A. Williams and Dr. Gregory Leonard, testified on behalf of Qualcomm regarding wireless telecommunications technologies. Motion to Compel at 1. The Court has reviewed the Motion to Compel and the Response and has given due consideration to the arguments of the parties. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 ParkerVision argues the experts' reports and testimony from previous cases are discoverable for several reasons. ParkerVision first argues the information is relevant because it relates to the expected testimony in this case, and even if not, ParkerVision claims it is entitled to use the information for impeachment purposes. Motion to Compel at 7-11. Second, ParkerVision states the request is timely because it was filed prior to the expert discovery deadline of May 10, 2013. Motion to Compel at 11. Third, ParkerVision asserts its request is narrowly tailored and not unduly burdensome because it is only requesting previous reports and testimony from cases in which the experts testified on behalf of Qualcomm, and it is likely that Qualcomm either has the information on hand or can access it with relative ease. Motion to Compel at 11-12. Finally, ParkerVision states it will redact anything that could jeopardize the confidentiality of any third-party information contained in the materials requested, and all other information contained in the materials will be subject to the parties' Confidentiality Agreement in this case.[fn1] Motion to Compel at 12. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Conversely, Qualcomm argues it should not be compelled to produce the information requested by ParkerVision, also for several reasons. First, Qualcomm claims that neither the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure or the Local Rules require the disclosure of this information as expert discovery. Response at 3-6. Second, Qualcomm argues the request is untimely as the last date for ParkerVision to request this type of information was 30 days prior to the close of the fact discovery deadline of November 30, 2012. Response at 6-11. Qualcomm additionally argues the information requested is irrelevant as the testimony of Qualcomm's experts in previous cases is unrelated to their expected testimony in this case, and ParkerVision has failed to show any basis for its claimed entitlement to these materials for impeachment purposes. Response at 11-17. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 After much [*2] review and consideration of this matter, the Court finds ParkerVision's Motion to Compel seeks information outside the scope of expert discovery under Rule 26(b)(4) and outside the expert disclosure requirements of Rule 26(a)(2) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure. Under a broad construction of ParkerVision's request for prior expert reports, prior expert deposition transcripts and prior trial testimony transcripts, however, the Court finds these discovery materials fall within the ambit of Rule 26(b)(1) for general fact discovery.[fn2] Whereas the scope of expert discovery set forth in Rule 26(a)(2) and 26(b)(4) is specific and limited by the terms stated in the rule sub-parts, general fact discovery under Rule 26(b)(1) is to be broadly and liberally interpreted within its terms. SeeHickman v. Taylor, 329 U.S. 495, 506 (1947) (stating deposition discovery rules are to be accorded broad and liberal treatment); Josendis v. Wall toWall Residence Repairs, Inc., 662 F.3d 1292, 1307 (11th Cir. 2011) (stating under Rule 26(b)(1) the district courts have broad authority to control the scope of discovery); Giraldo v. Drummond Co. Inc., No. 2:09-CV-01041-RDP, [2012 BL 147057], 2012 WL 2358297, *1 (N.D. Ala. Jun. 15, 2012) (finding courts are required to accord discovery a broad and liberal scope) (citations omitted); Jeld-Wen, Inc. v. Nebula Glass Int'l, Inc., No. 05-60860-CIV, [2007 BL 197815], 2007 WL 1526649, *1 (S.D. Fla. May 22, 2007) (finding "[e]ven after the 2000 amendments to Rule 26, it is well established that courts must employ a liberal discovery standard in keeping with the spirit and purpose of discovery rules") (citations omitted). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Motions to compel disclosures and other discovery under Rule 37(a) are committed to the sound discretion of the trial court. Commercial UnionInsurance Co. v. Westrope, 730 F.2d 729, 731 (11th Cir. 1984); Wu v. Thomas, 996 F.2d 271, 275 (11th Cir. 1993); Lee v. Etowah County Bd. of Educ., 963 F.2d 1416, 1420 (11th Cir. 1992). The trial court's exercise of discretion regarding discovery orders will be sustained absent a finding of abuse of that discretion, which resulted in "substantial harm to the party seeking relief." Arabian American Oil Co. v. Scarfone, 939 F.2d 1472, 1477(11th Cir. 1991); see also, Commercial Union Ins. Co., 730 F.2d at 731. In order to decide whether motions to compel should be granted, the Court must first decide if the information sought "appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence" under Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 26(b). Rule 26(b)(1) provides in relevant part that "[p]arties may obtain discovery regarding any nonprivileged matter that is relevant to any party's claim or defense...." Fed.R.Civ. P. 26(b)(1). On the facts presented, the Court finds discovery of prior expert reports and prior testimony of Qualcomm's current experts is relevant to both claims and defenses raised in this action, and may lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. However, the inquiry and analysis does not stop at this point. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The enlarged fact discovery period closed on November 30, 2012 (see Doc. #108, Amended Case Management and Scheduling Order (Amended "CMSO") at 2). After entry of the Amended CMSO, the expert discovery deadline was again extended twice, ultimately to May 10, 2013, at the request of the parties (see Endorsed Orders [*3] at Docs. #245, #255). ParkverVision's Motion to Compel Expert Discovery was filed on April 19, 2013. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Qualcomm disclosed to ParkerVision its hiring of Dr. Leonard as a consultant in connection with this matter on July 17, 2012. See Response, Ex. 1. Pursuant to Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 26(a)(2)(B) and the parties' Confidentiality Agreement, Qualcomm provided a list of all other cases in which Dr. Leonard testified within the previous six years. Response, Ex. 1 at 15-19, 23-26. On September 19, 2012, Qualcomm disclosed to ParkerVision the hiring of Dr. Williams and provided a list of cases in which Dr. Williams had testified within the previous six years. SeeResponse, Ex. 2. With disclosure of the lists of cases, ParkerVision was put on notice that Qualcomm had used these experts in past litigations. When Qualcomm disclosed these experts to ParkerVision in 2012, it also put ParkerVision on notice that Dr. Leonard and Dr. Williams would be viewing the confidential and proprietary discovery materials subject to the mutually agreed upon Confidentiality Agreement. See Response, Ex. 1 at 1, Ex. 2 at 1. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 ParkerVision argues the fact it requested these materials from Qualcomm "mere days after the ... service of the Williams and Leonard reports" demonstrates its request in the instant motion is timely made. Motion to Compel at 11. Qualcomm argues the requested materials fall outside its disclosure and report requirements for experts, and thus at best would be considered an untimely request for fact discovery. Response at 1-11. Thus, the present dispute hinges on the determination of whether the sought materials fall under the umbrella of fact discovery versus expert discovery. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 During the fact discovery period, ParkerVision propounded discovery requests, similar to what is presently in dispute, on Qualcomm and on a third party involving expert reports and various documents from previous litigations. On August 14, 2012, ParkerVision served its Third Request for Production of Documents, ESI, and Things to Defendant Qualcomm Incorporated. See Response, Ex. 5. This Rule 34 request for the production of documents pertained solely to the earlier case of Qualcomm, Inc. v. Broadcom, Inc., Civ. Action No. 05-CV-1958-B(BLM), in the Southern District of California. See id. Among other things, ParkerVision asked Qualcomm to produce its expert reports and non-confidential documents attached as exhibits to those reports. Id. In response on September 17, 2012, Qualcomm objected to each request, in part due to relevancy and burden. Response, Ex. 6. Additionally, it is notable that ParkerVision also sought information from the business of which one of Qualcomm's other experts in this case is the CEO and chairman of the board. See Response at Ex. 1. James Malackowski, of an IP consulting firm called Ocean Tomo was disclosed to ParkerVision on July 17, 2012. See id. On September 28, 2012 ParkerVision issued a subpoena duces tecum out of the Northern District of Illinois to Ocean Tomo requesting documents showing any work the company had done for Qualcomm in the past five years, [*4] a request which presumably encompassed similar documents ParkerVision now seeks to compel from Qualcomm. See Response, Ex. 8. Ocean Tomo responded by filing objections to the subpoena on October 15, 2012 in the Northern District of Illinois, but the Court has not been advised as to the resolution of that matter. SeeResponse at 12 n.5 & Ex. 9. Qualcomm, however, states it believes Ocean Tomo did not produce anything in response to the subpoena. Response at 12 n.5. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 On these facts, it is clear ParkerVision sought substantially similar discovery from Qualcomm and from another of Qualcomm's experts disclosed in this case during the fact discovery period. It is also clear, ParkerVision was made aware in September-October 2012 that Qualcomm would not produce this type of discovery unless ordered by the Court, nor would Malackowski's consulting firm, Ocean Tomo. Additionally, ParkerVision acknowledges its belief the disputed discovery under the present Motion to Compel existed "[a]s early as March 13, 2012," which it could have sought to compel upon the disclosure of experts Drs. Leonard and Williams in July and September 2012. See Motion to Compel at 2. Yet, ParkerVision did not move the Court to compel such discovery until less thanthirty days before the expert discovery deadline of May 10, 2013. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 While both parties make arguments pertaining to the issue of the timeliness of the request, neither cited any authoritative law that clarifies whether a request for the production of such materials should be subject to the expert discovery deadline provided in the Amended CMSO.[fn3]The question is left to the Court's discretion. See Lee v. Etowah County Bd.of Educ., 963 F.2d 1416, 1420 (11th Cir. 1992) (finding discovery matters are committed to the discretion of the district court); Commercial UnionInsurance Co., 730 F.2d at 731 (finding the district courts are to exercise sound discretion in discovery matters). In this instance, based on the specifics of the request and the circumstances of this case, the prior reports and prior testimony of Qualcomm's experts properly fall under the umbrella of overall fact discovery and any discovery of these items was subject to the enlarged November 30, 2012 deadline. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The undersigned agrees with Qualcomm that the expert discovery period in the Amended CMSO does not provide an extended period of document discovery related to the disclosed experts; rather, it allows for an extended period of time to exchange expert reports pertaining to the current litigation and to complete expert depositions. See Response at 10-11. The reason both parties asked the Court to extend the expert discovery deadline from May 3, 2013 to May 10, 2013 was to provide additional time to complete depositions of the experts (see Doc. # 250, "Joint Motion to Extend Expert Discovery"). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The plain language of Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 16(b) requires the party seeking to enlarge an established deadline demonstrate good cause. Fed.R.Civ. P. 16(b)(4). "Rule 16(b) does not define good cause, but the advisory committee note indicates that good cause exists if the schedule cannot [*5] reasonably be met despite the diligence of the party seeking the extension." Green Island Holdings, LLC v. British American Isle of Venice(BVI), Ltd., No. 11-14534, [2013 BL 148060], 2013 WL 2436467, *2 (11th Cir. Jun. 6, 2013).[fn4] In this instance, the party seeking to compel additional discovery is the party seeking to obtain that discovery outside of the established deadline. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Although ParkerVision may argue it was unaware that the discovery sought by the instant Motion to Compel would not be accepted by the Court as "expert discovery," such argument is not persuasive given the army of lawyers employed to pursue ParkerVision's interests in this action, and the plain language of Rule 26(a)(2) and Rule 26(b)(4).[fn5] Moreover, as noted above, ParkerVision sought this same discovery, or same type of discovery, earlier in these proceedings. The cases cited by ParkerVision in support of its Motion to Compel are not persuasive on the facts before this Court. In Jeld-Wen, the court utilized the overall liberal discovery standard in determining whether to compel a prior relevant settlement agreement. See Jeld-Wen, [2007 BL 197815], 2007 WL 1526649 at *1-4. In Brown v. Overhead DoorCorp., No. 06 C 50107, [2008 BL 90356], 2008 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 34879 (N.D. Ill. Apr. 29, 2008), the court found prior deposition and trial testimony of the plaintiff's six disclosed experts was relevant "under Fed.R.Civ. P. 26(b)(1)." [2008 BL 90356], 2008 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 34879 at *2-5. In Jencks v. New HampshireMotor Speedway, Inc., No. 09-cv-205-JD, [2011 BL 253216], 2011 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 113988 (D. N.H. Oct. 3, 2011), the court quoted from Rule 26(b)(1) in determining whether prior deposition testimony and opinions of experts in other cases should be compelled, ultimately directing counsel to confer about the best means for searching the expert's records. [2011 BL 253216], 2011 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 113988 at *9-14. In SEC v. Huff, No. 08-60315-CIV-ROSENBAUM, [2010 BL 7130], 2010 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 6916 (S.D. Fla. Jan. 13, 2010), the court construed SEC's motion in limine as a motion to compel, found it timely filed, quoted relevant parts of Rule 26(b) and used the Advisory Committee Notes to Rule 26 to "allow a broad search for facts" of the expert's "documents reflecting sworn testimony given ... in the last four years." [2010 BL 7130], 2010 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 6916 at *11-17. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Well before November 30, 2012 passed, ParkerVision knew, or should have known, the information it now seeks may fall within the broad parameters of Rule 26(b)(1), but not the more limited scope of expert discovery. Review of the record reveals neither side has been hesitant to file motions to compel in this litigation. The instant Motion to Compel should have been filed prior to the close of the fact discovery period. ParkerVision has not made the requisite showing of good cause that it was unable to move to compel the previous expert reports and testimony transcripts of Qualcomm's current experts before the close of the fact discovery period. See Fed.R.Civ. P. 16(b)(4). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 For the reasons stated herein, ParkerVision's Motion to Compel Expert Discovery (Doc. #255) is DENIED. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 DONE AND ORDERED. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn1] An executed copy of the parties' Confidentiality Agreement may be found attached as Exhibit B to the Motion to Compel. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn2] The Court recognizes that in many instances a scheduling order may not make any distinction, including deadlines, for expert discovery and general fact discovery. In this case, however, the distinction was established with the original CMSO (Doc. #84) and the parties have been aware of it throughout the progress of this case. Moreover, it is the parties disagreement over discovery matters that has led the Court to draw the distinctions discussed herein. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn3] The initial CMSO (Doc. #84) outlines the parameters of the Disclosure of Expert Testimony, the overall Limits on Discovery, and the "Discovery Deadline." CMSO at 5-6. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn4] Unpublished opinions have been cited as persuasive on a particular point. The Court does not rely on unpublished opinions as precedent. Citation to unpublished opinions on or after January 1, 2007 is expressly permitted under Rule 32.1, Fed. R. App. P. See also 11th Cir. R. 36-2 . 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn5] The undersigned notes Qualcomm's army of lawyers is of similar strength and size. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb566\sa1133\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0          
\f0\fs42 General Information\

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 Judge(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Thomas E. Morris\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Related Docket(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 3:11-cv-00719 (M.D. Fla.);\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Topic(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Civil Procedure\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Date Filed\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 2013-07-17 00:00:00\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Parties\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 PARKERVISION, INC., Plaintiff, vs. QUALCOMM INCORPORATED, Qualcomm. QUALCOMM INCORPORATED, Counterclaim Plaintiff, vs. PARKERVISION, INC. and STERNE, KESSLER, GOLDSTEIN & FOX, PLLC, Counterclaim Defendants.\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Case Type\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 SO\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Court\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 United States District Court for the Middle District of Florida\cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\li674\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\fs20 \cf0 Pagination \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 *
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 BL
\f1\fs24 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\li674\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Majority Opinion > 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE MIDDLE DISTRICT OF FLORIDA, TAMPA DIVISION\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0  \uc0\u8232 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 HAIDER ALI KHAN, M.D., et al. v. BANKUNITED, INC., et al. 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0  \uc0\u8232 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Case No. 8:15-CV-2632-T-23TGW \
May 11, 2016, Filed May 11, 2016, Decided \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 For Haider Ali Khan, M.D., Sabiha Haider Khan, QHP Group, Inc., QHP Financial Group, Inc., Plaintiffs: Stephen S. Stallings, LEAD ATTORNEY, The Law Offices of Stephen S. Stallings, Esq., Pittsburgh, PA.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 For Nazeer Haider Khan, M.D., Plaintiff: Stephen S. Stallings, The Law Offices of Stephen S. Stallings, Esq., Pittsburgh, PA.\
For BankUnited, Inc., BankUnited, N.A., Defendants: Louis Joseph Shaheen, Jr., Margaret Diane Mathews, LEAD ATTORNEYS, Akerman LLP - Tampa, Tampa, FL; Sandra Jessica Millor, LEAD ATTORNEY, Akerman LLP, Miami, FL.\
For Richard Fischer, John Hotchkiss, Mark C. Foley, Defendants: Christopher Cole Cavallo, Jonathan Etra, LEAD ATTORNEYS, Broad and Cassel, Miami, FL; Sandra Jessica Millor, LEAD ATTORNEY, Akerman LLP, Miami, FL.\
For Peter J. Grilli, Mediator: Peter John Grilli, LEAD ATTORNEY, Peter J. Grilli, PA, Tampa, FL.
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 THOMAS G. WILSON, UNITED STATES MAGISTRATE JUDGE.
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 THOMAS G. WILSON \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 ORDER 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 THIS CAUSE came on for consideration upon the Defendants' Joint Motion to Stay Discovery Pending Resolution of the Motions to Dismiss the Amended Complaint (Doc. 22) and the plaintiffs' opposition thereto (Doc. 25).\
The defendants' Motions to Dismiss the Amended Complaint challenge the sufficiency of each claim and the assertion of personal jurisdiction over the individual defendants (Docs. 12, 13). In response, the plaintiffs filed not only a memorandum in opposition to the motions, but also a lengthy "RICO Case Statement" (Doc. 17), which arguably is an implicit acknowledgment that the amended complaint is deficient.\
Further, a cursory review of the 39-page amended complaint shows elements of a shotgun complaint. See Strategic Income Fund, L.L.C. v. Spear, Leeds & Kellogg Corp., 305 F.3d 1293 , 1295 (11th Cir. 2002)(The typical shotgun complaint contains several counts, each one incorporating by reference the allegations of its predecessors, leading to a situation where most of the counts contain irrelevant factual allegations and legal conclusions). Thus, the plaintiffs incorporate into each count dozens of allegations asserted in connection with the previous claims, including a civil conspiracy count that, in paragraph 129, "reallege[s] and incorporate[s] herein by reference each and every allegation contained in the foregoing paragraphs 1 through 129 of this Complaint as if set forth fully herein" (Doc. 10, p. 38, \'b6129).\
The plaintiffs argue that a stay of discovery is inappropriate because the defendants have not shown that the Amended Complaint "is so deficient on its face that all counts will be dismissed" (Doc. 25). While discovery generally should not be stayed pending resolution of a motion to dismiss, a stay may be appropriate when its resolution will potentially narrow the scope of discovery in a case of this complexity and size. See Chudasama v. Mazda Corporation, 123 F.3d 1353 , 1368 (11th Cir.1997)(a stay of discovery is intended to avoid unnecessary costs to the litigants and the court). The plaintiffs, additionally, have not identified undue prejudice ([*2] see Doc. 25),\
Consequently, I find that it is appropriate to stay most discovery in this case pending ruling on the motions to dismiss. In this connection, the discovery stay does not apply to the parties' scheduled exchange of initial disclosures on May 27, 2016, and the parties shall continue their discussions regarding the appropriate protocols for conducting e-discovery searches.\
It is, therefore, upon consideration,\
ORDERED:\
That the Defendants' Joint Motion to Stay Discovery Pending Resolution of the Motions to Dismiss the Amended Complaint (Doc. 22) is GRANTED to the extent that discovery is stayed pending resolution of the motions to dismiss, with the exception of the parties' exchange of initial disclosures pursuant to Rule 26, F.R.Civ.P. , and continued discussions regarding the appropriate protocols for conducting e-discovery searches.\
DONE and ORDERED at Tampa, Florida, this 11th day of May, 2016.\
/s/ Thomas G. Wilson\
THOMAS G. WILSON\
UNITED STATES MAGISTRATE JUDGE
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb566\sa1133\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0          
\f0\fs42 General Information\

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 Judge(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Thomas G. Wilson\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Related Docket(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 8:15-cv-02632 (M.D. Fla.);\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Topic(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Other\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Date Filed\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 2016-05-11 00:00:00\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Parties\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 HAIDER ALI KHAN, M.D., et al. v. BANKUNITED, INC., et al.\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Court\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 United States District Court for the Middle District of Florida\cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\li674\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\fs20 \cf0 Pagination \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 *
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 BL
\f1\fs24 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\li674\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 United States District Court, M.D. Florida \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 ABRAHAM I. AWWAD, Plaintiff, v. LARGO MEDICAL CENTER, INC., Defendant. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Case No. 8:11-cv-1638-T-24 TBM. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 November 27, 2013. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
ORDER 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\
Susan C. Bucklew, District Judge 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\
This cause comes before the Court on Defendant's Motion to Tax Costs. (Doc. No. 221). Plaintiff opposes the motion, in part. (Doc. No. 228). As explained below, the motion is granted in part and denied in part. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 I. Background 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 On July 25, 2011, Plaintiff Abraham Awwad, a Palestinian doctor, filed suit against Defendant Largo Medical Center ("LMC") for revoking his medical staff privileges. In his Second Amended Complaint, Plaintiff asserted five claims: (1) a \'a7 1981 claim seeking damages, (2) a \'a7 1981 claim seeking injunctive relief, (3) a fraud claim, (4) a breach of medical staff bylaws claim seeking damages, and (5) a breach of medical staff bylaws claim seeking injunctive relief. (Doc. No. 46). In response, LMC asserted two counterclaims: (1) defamation (regarding Plaintiff's statements to the media regarding LMC) and (2) breach of the medical staff bylaws. (Doc. No. 50). In April of 2013, LMC moved to drop the breach of the medical staff bylaws counterclaim. (Doc. No. 145). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 In August of 2013, after a hearing, the Court granted summary judgment on the \'a7 1981 claims and declined to exercise supplemental jurisdiction over the state law claims. (Doc. No. 215). The Court concluded that Plaintiff did not establish a prima facie case of race discrimination and that LMC had offered a legitimate, non-discriminatory reason for the revocation of Plaintiff's medical staff privileges. Specifically, LMC offered evidence that it revoked Plaintiff's medical staff privileges because Plaintiff did not comply with LMC's non-corrective action requirements that he obtain counseling and attend continuing education. This non-corrective action was required by LMC due to LMC's belief that Plaintiff had engaged in disruptive conduct and had patient care problems. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 II. Motion to Tax Costs 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Because LMC prevailed with respect to Plaintiff's \'a7 1981 claims, LMC filed the instant motion to tax costs. In reviewing LMC's motion to tax costs, the Court is mindful of the following: 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 A prevailing party may recover costs as a matter of course unless otherwise directed by the Court or applicable statute. Congress has delineated which costs are recoverable under Rule 54(d), Fed.R.Civ.P. The Court has the discretion to award those costs specifically enumerated in 28 U.S.C. \'a7 1920. The Court, however, may not tax as costs any items not authorized by statute. When challenging whether costs are taxable, the losing party bears the burden of demonstrating that a cost is not taxable, unless the knowledge regarding the proposed cost is within the exclusive knowledge of the prevailing party. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Monelus v. Tocodrian, Inc., 609 F.Supp.2d 1328, 1332-33 (S.D. Fla. 2009) (internal citations omitted). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 In its motion, LMC seeks $76,906.97 in costs, consisting of the following: (1) $2,350 for service of summons and subpoenas, (2) $40,595.20 for transcripts, (3) $1,627.32 for witness fees, and (3) $32,334.45 for photocopies. Accordingly, the Court will analyze LMC's request for each [*2] category of costs. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 A. Overlapping of Claims and Costs 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 LMC argues that Plaintiff's claims were all inextricably intertwined, and as such, all taxable costs incurred as to its defense of Plaintiff's claims should be recoverable. Plaintiff objects to LMC's characterization. Upon consideration, the Court agrees with LMC that Plaintiff's claims were related and that there was significant overlap in the facts supporting the claims. Therefore, to the extent that the Court can find a sufficient relationship between LMC's proposed taxable costs and Plaintiff's \'a7 1981 claims, the Court will award such costs. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 B. Service of Summons and Subpoenas 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 LMC seeks $2,350 for the cost of service of summons and subpoenas. This amount is based on a reduction in the amount charged for such service when the amount exceeded $55 (the rate charged by the U.S. Marshal service to effectuate service). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Plaintiff objects to most of the service costs, arguing that the people subpoenaed were not relevant to the issues in this case. To the extent that LMC seeks reimbursement for the cost of non-party discovery of Plaintiff's undergraduate and graduate schools, the Tampa Bay Times, various health insurance companies, and medical centers (other than Northside), it is not clear how such costs are related to Plaintiff's \'a7 1981 race discrimination claims. Perhaps a relationship exists, but LMC has not specifically explained why these costs are related. Therefore, the Court only awards LMC the $55 service cost for the following 10 people and entities: 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \'95 1/10/13 service of subpoena on the corporate representative of Abraham I. Awwad, D.O., P.A. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \'95 1/11/13 service of subpoena on the corporate representative of Ted Sharp, C.P.A., P.A. (regarding Plaintiff's damages) 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \'95 1/15/13 service of subpoena on Jeina Awwad (Plaintiff's bookkeeper regarding damages) 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \'95 1/24/13 service of subpoena on Northside Hospital 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \'95 1/30/13 service of subpoena on Ted Sharp, C.P.A., P.A. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \'95 1/31/13 service of subpoena on Jeina Awwad 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \'95 2/8/13 service of subpoena on Abraham I. Awwad, D.O., P.A. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \'95 4/24/13 service of subpoena on Abraham I. Awwad, D.O. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \'95 4/24/13 service of subpoena on Frank Crossland, registered agent of Abraham Awwad 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \'95 5/1/13 service of subpoena on Dr. Elias Kanaan (deposed regarding Plaintiff's proposed comparators) 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Accordingly, LMC is awarded $550 for the cost of service of subpoenas. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 C. Transcripts 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Next, LMC seeks $40,595.20 for the cost of transcripts. LMC seeks recovery of costs related to two types of transcripts: (1) deposition transcripts and (2) transcripts of hearings. To the extent that LMC seeks reimbursement for the cost of transcripts of hearings, LMC has not shown that such transcripts were necessarily obtained for use in this case. Additionally, to the extent that LMC seeks reimbursement for the $38.50 cost of a transcript of a January 11, 2013 "agreement on the record," the Court does not have sufficient information to find this cost to be taxable and will not tax this cost. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 With regards to the deposition transcripts, Plaintiff concedes that the following seven depositions were related to his \'a7 1981 claims: Larry Feinman, Jeffrey Steinhoff, [*3] Ricardo Requena, Richard Satcher, Charles Nutinsky, Paladugu, and Karen Meno. However, Plaintiff argues that the following nineteen depositions were not related to his \'a7 1981 claims: Ted Sharp, Jeina Awwad, Stanley Goldfarb, Stephen Durham, Joseph Shapiro, Elias Kanaan, Winston Nagin, Nikhi Singh, Paul Steele, Guruswamy Ramamurthy, Lana Bracewell, Patricia McWhorter, Joseph Rosin, Riccardo Bocco, Diane Baxter, Edward Ross, Merrill Krolick, Patricia Procissi, and Ian Ratner. 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 With regard to the nineteen objected to depositions, the Court finds that LMC has explained the relevancy of these depositions to Plaintiff's \'a7 1981claims and that these depositions were necessary for use in this case. Specifically, Sharp, J. Awwad, Durham, and Ratner were deposed regarding Plaintiff's damages. Goldfarb, Kanaan, Bracewell, McWhorter, Krolick, and Procissi were deposed regarding Plaintiff's proposed comparators. Nagin, Singh, Bocco, and Baxter were deposed as experts regarding race. Shapiro and Ross were deposed as nephrology experts, and Plaintiff included Shapiro's declaration as part of his summary judgment opposition regarding his \'a7 1981claims. (Doc. No. 195, p. 30, 199-4). Steele was deposed regarding Plaintiff's proposed comparators, and he was a member of the MEC (the MEC was a part of the decision-making process regarding Plaintiff's revocation of staff privileges). Ramamurthy and Rosin were deposed regarding Plaintiff's proposed comparators, and they were members of the hearing panel (the hearing panel was a part of the decision-making process regarding Plaintiff's revocation of staff privileges). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Plaintiff also objects to certain fees associated with these depositions and argues that such fees are not recoverable. Accordingly, the Court will address each category of fees charged. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 1. Videotaped Depositions 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Plaintiff argues that the cost of videotaped depositions is not taxable, because LMC obtained both video and stenographic depositions for many deponents. In such a situation, the Eleventh Circuit has stated: "[W]hen a party notices a deposition to be recorded by nonstenographic means, or by both stenographic and nonstenographic means, and no objection is raised at that time by the other party to the method of recordation pursuant to Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 26(c), it is appropriate under \'a7 1920 to award the cost of conducting the deposition in the manner noticed." Morrison v. ReichholdChemicals, Inc., 97 F.3d 460, 465 (11th Cir. 1996). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Plaintiff does not argue that the depositions were not noticed to be recorded by both stenographic and nonstenographic means, nor does he argue that he raised an objection at the time. Instead, he argues that LMC must explain why it was necessary to obtain both types of transcripts. However, the Court believes that the proper inquiry is: (1) whether the depositions were noticed to be recorded by both stenographic and nonstenographic means, (2) whether Plaintiff objected at the time, and (3) whether the depositions (not the type of recording) was necessary to the case. See, e.g., Wood v.Green, [2010 BL 72355], 2010 WL 1380154, at *3 (N.D. [*4] Fla. Mar. 31, 2010). Under this inquiry, the cost of both video and stenographic depositions are recoverable in this case. However, Plaintiff correctly argues that video synchronization costs are not taxable. See Cardinale v. Southern Homes of Polk County, Inc., [2008 BL 115818], 2008 WL 2199273, at *1 (M.D. Fla. May 27, 2008); Tampa Bay Water v. HDREngineering, Inc., [2012 BL 288702], 2012 WL 5387830, at *19 (M.D. Fla. Nov. 2, 2012); WasteServices, Inc. v. Waste Management Inc., [2007 BL 7119], 2007 WL 1174116, at *4 (M.D. Fla. April 18, 2007). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 2. Shipping, Rough Drafts, ASCII Format, and Exhibits 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Next, Plaintiff correctly argues that shipping costs related to the depositions are not taxable. See Watson v. Lake County, 492 Fed.Appx. 991, 997 (11th Cir. 2012). Likewise, Plaintiff correctly argues that the costs of ASCII copies are not taxable. See Cardinale, [2008 BL 115818], 2008 WL 2199273, at *1; TampaBay Water, [2012 BL 288702], 2012 WL 5387830, at *19. Additionally, the Court concludes that the costs of rough drafts are not taxable. Finally, Plaintiff contends that the cost of deposition exhibits should not be taxed, but the Court rejects this argument, as the exhibits were necessary in order to get a complete understanding from the transcripts. See id.
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 3. Expedited Transcripts 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Next, Plaintiff argues that the cost of expediting transcripts is not taxable. The Court agrees that normally expedited transcripts are a cost that should not be taxed, as they are often for convenience of counsel.[fn1] Cardinale, [2008 BL 115818], 2008 WL 2199273, at *1; Tampa Bay Water, [2012 BL 288702], 2012 WL 5387830, at *19. However, with respect to the expedited transcript costs related to Sharp and J. Awwad's depositions, the Court finds that such costs are taxable, because they were incurred in connection with LMC's partially successful motion to compel. (Doc. No. 108, 122). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 4. After Hours Charges 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Plaintiff makes a passing argument that the $100 after-hours charge for one hour of Shapiro's deposition should not be taxed. Plaintiff, however, fails to fully explain this argument, and as such, the Court overrules this objection. 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 5. Summary of Deposition Costs to be Taxed 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Based on the above, the Court will tax the following deposition costs, totaling $33,254.88: 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\b\fs20 \cf0 Deponent Requested Amount Reduction Taxable Amount
\b0  Plaintiff: 1/11/13 $1,340.34 $(60.00) $1,280.34 Plaintiff: 1/10/13 $1,485.69 $(80.00) $1,405.69 Plaintiff: 4/9/12 $2,282.60 $(140.00) $2,142.60 Feinman: 1/15/13 and 1/16/13 $1,357.10 $(10.00) $1,347.10 Feinman: 4/10/13 $2,679.55 $(845.00) $1,834.55 Steinhoff $923.90 $- $923.90 Requena $1,287.70 $- $1,287.70 Satcher $472.20 $(162.00) $310.20 Nutinsky $1,113.00 $- $1,113.00 Paladugu $942.15 $(298.00) $644.15 Meno $2,069.40 $(656.00) $1,413.40 Sharp $2,552.50 $(206.00) $2,346.50 J. Awwad $1,604.50 $(172.00) $1,432.50 Goldfarb: 2/15/13 $1,677.29 $(528.54) $1,148.75 Goldfarb: 2/15/13 $822.50 $(140.00) $682.50 Goldfarb: 2/13/13 $1,277.13 $(201.00) $1,076.13 Durham $1,881.03 $(607.53) $1,273.50 Shapiro $1,534.95 $(100.00) $1,434.95 Kanaan $646.10 $(40.00) $606.10 Nagin $1,494.65 $(80.00) $1,414.65 Singh $1,354.82 $(60.00) $1,294.82 Steele: 2/11/13 $436.35 $(6.00) $430.35 Steele: 2/11/13 $195.00 $- $195.00 Ramamurthy $665.25 $- $665.25 Bracewell $720.20 $(15.00) $705.20 McWhorter $476.40 $(12.00) $464.40 Rosin $432.90 $(162.00) $270.90 Bocco $831.00 $(260.00) $571.00 Baxter $677.85 $(204.00) $473.85 Ross $1,587.60 $(504.00) $1,083.60 Krolick & Procissi $1,799.60 $(458.00) $1,341.60 Ratner $640.70 $- $640.70 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0

\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 D. Witness Fees
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Next, LMC seeks $[*5] 1,627.32 for witness fees, consisting of the following: (1) $189.72 for J. Awwad, (2) $62.60 for Sharp, and (3) $1,375 for Durham for two days of expert depositions. Plaintiff argues that none of these costs should be taxable, because these witnesses were not necessary for LMC's success on summary judgment. The Court rejects this argument and has already found that these witnesses were relevant to Plaintiff's \'a7 1981 claims and their depositions were necessarily obtained for use relating to those claims. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Next, Plaintiff argues that the requested witness fees exceed the amount allowable under 18 U.S.C. \'a7 1821, which proves for a $40 per day witness fee. Section 1821 also allows for the cost of mileage. The handwritten receipts for J. Awwad and Sharp simply state that the amounts requested are for "witness fee and mileage." (Doc. No. 221-6). There is no documentation regarding the number of miles traveled or the mileage reimbursement rate used. As such, the Court awards witness fees in the amount of $40 each for J. Awwad and Sharp. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 With respect to Durham, LMC argues that it should be reimbursed for the total amount that Durham charged to be an expert witness. This argument has no merit, and the reimbursable witness fee for Durham is limited to $40 for each of his two days. See Morrison, 97 F.3d at 463. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 E. Photocopies 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Next, LMC seeks $32,334.45 for the cost of photocopies. In connection with the taxation of photocopying costs, the Eleventh Circuit has stated the following: 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Use of information contained in a file is not a prerequisite to finding that it was necessary to copy the file. Rather, . . . in evaluating copying costs, the court should consider whether the prevailing party could have reasonably believed that it was necessary to copy the papers at issue. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 U.S. E.E.O.C. v. W&O, Inc., 213 F.3d 600, 623 (11th Cir. 2000) (internal citations and quotation marks omitted). Furthermore, the Court is mindful of the following: 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [T]he costs of photocopies are recoverable if the copies were necessarily obtained for use in the case. The party moving for taxation of costs must present evidence regarding the documents copied including their use or intended use. As the prevailing party alone knows the purpose of the copies, it cannot simply make unsubstantiated claims that copies of the documents were necessary. Rather, the prevailing party must provide information regarding the purpose of copies charged so the court will be able to determine the purpose of the copies as well as whether the rates paid for copies were reasonable, and whether the copies made were related to the action at issue. In evaluating whether copies were necessary, the Court does not award costs for copies made merely for counsel's convenience, such as multiple copies of documents. Similarly, general copying costs without further description are not recoverable. The costs associated with copying documents for the purpose of providing them to the court, however, are reimbursable. Likewise, a prevailing party may recover costs of copies produced to opposing counsel. Thus, a party must demonstrate that copies were necessarily obtained for a reimbursable [*6] use in the case. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Monelus, 609 F.Supp.2d at 1335 (internal citations and quotation marks omitted). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 In support of its request for reimbursement, LMC states the following: 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 This case involved an extensive written record, much of which was comprised of confidential patient medical records and physician peer review records, both of which are subject to strict privacy and document control protocols. The costs incurred were necessary to the litigation, including production to Plaintiff in discovery, use at depositions and submission of records to the Court, and are reflected in the invoices attached. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 (Doc. No. 221, p. 9-10). However, the documentary support is lacking in sufficient detail for the Court to determine whether the copies were necessarily obtained for use in the case and relate to the \'a7 1981 claims. Therefore, the Court declines to award these costs. See Brooks v. PeerReview Mediation & Arbitration, Inc., [2012 BL 292226], 2012 WL 5410405, at *5 (S.D. Fla. Nov. 6, 2012); Gonzales v. Pasco County Bd. of County Commissioners, [2013 BL 113519], 2013 WL 1810820, at *3 (M.D. Fla. April 29, 2013); Gary Brown & Associates, Inc. v. Ashdon, Inc., 268 Fed.Appx. 837, 846 (11th Cir. 2008); Cullens v. Ga. Department ofTransportation, 29 F.3d 1489, 1494 (11th Cir. 1994); Dillon v. AxxsysInternational, Inc., [2006 BL 125853], 2006 WL 3841809, at *7 (M.D. Fla. Dec. 19, 2006). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Furthermore, the invoices include amounts for scanning, binders, hole-punching, tabs, CDs, ESI file conversions, OCR, break sheets, mileage, and other non-copying charges. These additional costs extend beyond the scope of copying, and alternatively, are for the convenience of counsel. SeeDurden v. Citicorp Trust Bank, FSB, 2010 WL 2105921, at *4 (M.D. Fla. April 26, 2010). The Court is not inclined to comb through these documents to do the job that LMC was required to do in the first place \'97 demonstrate that the costs are for photocopies that were necessarily obtained for use in this case to the extent of Plaintiff's \'a7 1981 claims. Therefore, the Court declines to tax any of the requested photocopying costs. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 III. Conclusion 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Accordingly, it is ORDERED AND ADJUDGED that: 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 (1) Defendant's Motion to Tax Costs (Doc. No. 221) is GRANTED to the extent that the Court concludes that $33,964.88 in costs should be taxed.[fn2]
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 (2) Defendant is directed to file an amended bill of costs, consistent with this order, by December 6, 2013, which will be immediately taxed by the Clerk. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 DONE AND ORDERED.
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn1] In determining the reduction for the costs of the expedited transcripts for Paladugu, Meno, Bocco, Baxter, Ross, and Procissi, the Court reduced the page rate charged from $6.30 (the expedited rate) to $4.30 (the regular rate) and multiplied the difference by the number of pages. Additionally, the Court notes that LMC made this reduction when seeking the cost of Bracewell's deposition. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn2] This amount consists of $33,254.88 for transcripts, $550 for service of subpoenas, and $160 for witness fees. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb566\sa1133\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0          
\f0\fs42 General Information\

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 Judge(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 SUSAN C. BUCKLEW\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Related Docket(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 8:11-cv-01638 (M.D. Fla.);\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Topic(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Civil Procedure; Tax & Accounting\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Date Filed\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 2013-11-27 00:00:00\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Parties\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 ABRAHAM I. AWWAD, Plaintiff, v. LARGO MEDICAL CENTER, INC., Defendant.\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Case Type\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 SO\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Court\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 United States District Court for the Middle District of Florida\cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\li674\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\fs20 \cf0 Pagination \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 *
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 BL
\f1\fs24 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\li674\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 United States District Court, N.D. Florida \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 PATRICIA McADAMS, Plaintiff, vs. CAROLYN W. COLVIN, Acting Commissioner of Social Security, Defendant. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Case No. 5:12cv307 /EMT. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 January 15, 2014. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
MEMORANDUM DECISION AND ORDER 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\
Elizabeth M. Timothy, Magistrate Judge 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\
This case has been referred to the undersigned magistrate judge for disposition pursuant to the authority of 28 U.S.C. \'a7 636(c) and Fed. R. Civ. P. 73, based on the parties' consent to magistrate judge jurisdiction (seedoc. 9). It is now before the court pursuant to 42 U.S.C. \'a7 405(g) of the Social Security Act ("the Act"), for review of a final decision of the Commissioner of the Social Security Administration ("Commissioner") denying Plaintiff's application for disability insurance benefits ("DIB") under Title II of the Act, 42 U.S.C. \'a7\'a7 401-34, and supplemental security income ("SSI") benefits under Title XVI of the Act, 42 U.S.C. \'a7\'a7 1381-83. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Upon review of the record before this court, it is the opinion of the undersigned that the findings of fact and determinations of the Commissioner are not supported by substantial evidence; thus, the decision of the Commissioner should be reversed and remanded for further administrative proceedings. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 I. PROCEDURAL HISTORY 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 On August 7, 2008, Plaintiff filed applications for DIB and SSI, and in each application she alleged disability beginning January 31, 2008 (tr. 17).[fn1] Her applications were denied initially and on reconsideration, and thereafter she requested a hearing before an administrative law judge ("ALJ"). A hearing was held on October 28, 2010, and on January 24, 2011, the ALJ issued a decision in which he found Plaintiff "not disabled," as defined under the Act, at any time through the date of his decision (tr. 17-26). The Appeals Council subsequently denied Plaintiff's request for review. Thus, the decision of the ALJ stands as the final decision of the Commissioner, subject to review in this court. Ingramv. Comm'r of Soc. Sec. Admin., 496 F.3d 1253, 1262 (11th Cir. 2007). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Plaintiff initiated an appeal of the Commissioner's final decision by filing a complaint in this court on September 19, 2012 (doc. 1). After Defendant filed an answer to the complaint and a certified copy of the transcript (docs. 10, 11), Plaintiff \'97 as directed by the court (see doc. 12) \'97 filed a memorandum in support of her complaint (doc. 13), to which the Commissioner responded in opposition (doc. 16). Plaintiff subsequently requested, and received, authorization to file an amended/corrected memorandum (docs. 17, 18). In granting Plaintiff's request, the court indicated that the Commissioner could, but was not required to, file an amended memorandum in response to Plaintiff's amended memorandum and that if the Commissioner chose not to do so, she would be deemed to be proceeding on her previously filed memorandum (doc. 18). The Commissioner did not file an amended memorandum. Thus, the court considers the claims and arguments set forth in Plaintiff's amended memorandum (doc. 19) and the Commissioner's original response (doc. 16). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 II. FINDINGS OF THE ALJ 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 In denying Plaintiff's claims, the ALJ made the following relevant findings (see tr. 17-26): 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 (a) Plaintiff met the [*2] insured requirements of the Act through December 31, 2012[fn2]; 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 (b) Plaintiff did not engage in substantial gainful activity during the relevant period; 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 (c) Plaintiff had the following severe impairments: degenerative disc disease, diabetes mellitus, hypertension, asthma, osteoarthritis, and obesity, but she had no impairment or combination of impairments that met or medically equaled an impairment listed in 20 C.F.R. Part 404, Subpart P, Appendix 1. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 (d) Plaintiff had the residual functional capacity ("RFC") to perform sedentary work, with certain exceptions, and thus was unable to perform any of her past relevant work because she performed her past work at light and medium levels of exertion. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 (e) Plaintiff \'97 who was born on January 2, 1968, and was forty years of age (a "younger individual") on the date she alleges she became disabled \'97 was able to perform other available jobs, at the sedentary level of exertion, and thus was not disabled during the relevant period. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 III. STANDARD OF REVIEW 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Review of the Commissioner's final decision is limited to determining whether the decision is supported by substantial evidence from the record and was a result of the application of proper legal standards. Carnes v.Sullivan, 936 F.2d 1215, 1218 (11th Cir. 1991) ("[T]his Court may reverse the decision of the [Commissioner] only when convinced that it is not supported by substantial evidence or that proper legal standards were not applied."); see also Lewis v. Callahan, 125 F.3d 1436, 1439 (11th Cir. 1997); Walker v. Bowen, 826 F.2d 996, 999 (11th Cir. 1987). "A determination that is supported by substantial evidence may be meaningless . . . if it is coupled with or derived from faulty legal principles." Boyd v. Heckler, 704 F.2d 1207, 1209 (11th Cir. 1983), superseded by statute on other groundsas stated in Elam v. R.R. Ret. Bd., 921 F.2d 1210, 1214 (11th Cir. 1991). As long as proper legal standards were applied, the Commissioner's decision will not be disturbed if in light of the record as a whole the decision appears to be supported by substantial evidence. 42 U.S.C. \'a7 405(g); Falge, 150 F.3d at 1322; Lewis, 125 F.3d at 1439; Foote v. Chater, 67 F.3d 1553, 1560 (11th Cir. 1995). Substantial evidence is more than a scintilla, but not a preponderance; it is "such relevant evidence as a reasonable person would accept as adequate to support a conclusion." Richardson v. Perales, 402 U.S. 389, 401, 91 S.Ct. 1420, 1427, 28 L.Ed.2d 842 (1971) (quoting Consolidated Edison Co. v. NLRB, 305 U.S. 197, 59 S.Ct. 206, 217, 83 L. Ed. 126 (1938)); Lewis, 125 F.3d at 1439. The court may not decide the facts anew, reweigh the evidence, or substitute its judgment for that of the Commissioner. Martin v. Sullivan, 894 F.2d 1520, 1529 (11th Cir. 1990) (citations omitted). Even if the evidence preponderates against the Commissioner's decision, the decision must be affirmed if supported by substantial evidence. Sewell v. Bowen, 792 F.2d 1065, 1067 (11th Cir. 1986). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The Act defines a disability as an "inability to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or which has lasted or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months." 42 U.S.C. \'a7 423(d)(1)(A). To qualify as a disability the physical or mental impairment must be so severe that the claimant is not only unable to do her previous work, "but cannot, considering [her] age, education, and work experience, engage in any [*3] other kind of substantial gainful work which exists in the national economy."  Id. \'a7 423(d)(2)(A). Pursuant to 20 C.F.R. \'a7 404.1520(a)-(g), [fn3] the Commissioner analyzes a disability claim in five steps: 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 1. If the claimant is performing substantial gainful activity, she is not disabled. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 2. If the claimant is not performing substantial gainful activity, her impairments must be severe before she can be found disabled. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 3. If the claimant is not performing substantial gainful activity and she has severe impairments that have lasted or are expected to last for a continuous period of at least twelve months, and if her impairments meet or medically equal the criteria of any impairment listed in 20 C.F.R. Part 404, Subpart P, Appendix 1, the claimant is presumed disabled without further inquiry. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 4. If the claimant's impairments do not prevent her from doing her past relevant work, she is not disabled. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 5. Even if the claimant's impairments prevent her from performing her past relevant work, if other work exists in significant numbers in the national economy that accommodates her RFC and vocational factors, she is not disabled. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The claimant bears the burden of establishing a severe impairment that keeps her from performing her past work. 20 C.F.R. \'a7 404.1512. If the claimant establishes such an impairment, the burden shifts to the Commissioner at step five to show the existence of other jobs in the national economy which, given the claimant's impairments, the claimant can perform. MacGregor v. Bowen, 786 F.2d 1050, 1052 (11th Cir. 1986). If the Commissioner carries this burden, the claimant must then prove he cannot perform the work suggested by the Commissioner. Hale v. Bowen, 831 F.2d 1007, 1011 (11th Cir. 1987). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 IV. SUMMARY OF RELEVANT EVIDENCE[fn4]
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 A. Evidence Related to Plaintiff's Back Condition 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Plaintiff has a history of lower back pain dating back to 2007 that is apparently related to a lifting injury she sustained at work (tr. 359), although the work injury may have exacerbated a pre-existing problem (seetr. 43). Prior to January 31, 2008, Plaintiff's alleged onset date, she received treatment from Lewe S. West, M.D., a physician with Internal Medicine Associates of Dothan, Alabama (see, e.g., tr. 452). Dr. West's treatment notes reflect Plaintiff's complaints of chronic low back pain and Dr. West's repeated recommendations to Plaintiff that she lose weight (see,e.g., tr. 450, 452). The notes also reflect Dr. West's belief, which belief he shared with Plaintiff, that losing weight would help reduce her back pain (see tr. 497). Also prior to Plaintiff's onset date, a magnetic resonance imaging ("MRI") of Plaintiff's lumbar spine (obtained in February 2007), revealed a herniated disc at L4-5 and degenerative disc disease ("DDD") at L4-5 and multiple levels. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 On February 6, 2008, Plaintiff saw Wayne L. Warren, Jr., M.D., for a neurosurgical consultation in connection with her claim for workers' compensation benefits (see tr. 312). She reported that her back pain had worsened, and thus Dr. Warren referred her for an updated MRI (tr. 315). The MRI was obtained in late February 2008, and it revealed mild spinal stenosis at L4-5 and a mild disc bulge at L2-3 (tr. 316). Dr. Warren recommended surgery to address [*4] Plaintiff's pain symptoms, and in March 2008 Plaintiff underwent a minimally invasive L4 laminectomy (tr. 363). In April 2008 Plaintiff reported that her "preoperative symptoms" had improved, and Dr. Warren noted that Plaintiff's physical examination was normal in all areas tested (see tr. 327). He restricted Plaintiff from work until at least until early May 2008 (or, approximately six weeks post-surgery) (see tr. 327-29). On May 2, 2008, Dr. Warren conducted another, entirely normal physical examination and thereafter released Plaintiff to work with no restrictions (tr. 329). On June 16, 2008, Dr. Warren referred Plaintiff for twelve physical therapy sessions (i.e., a four-week course, with three sessions each week) (tr. 330). Plaintiff returned to Dr. Warren in August 2008 with complaints of left foot numbness and worsening lower back pain, although a physical examination was again unremarkable (see tr. 335-36). Additionally, Dr. Warren noted that physical therapy had been effective in relieving Plaintiff's pain (see tr. 335). He assessed lumbar spondylosis and referred Plaintiff to pain management for lumbar epidural steroid injections ("ESIs") (tr. 336). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Brad P. Katz, M.D., a pain management physician, examined Plaintiff on August 25, 2008 (tr. 359). He noted that Plaintiff was obese (at four feet, ten inches tall, and 226 pounds) but in no apparent distress when sitting (id.). He further noted that Plaintiff's motor abilities were intact, and that her straight leg raising test was negative (tr. 360). Dr. Katz commented that Plaintiff's complaints of pain to cutaneous stimulation across her lower back were out of proportion to his examination of the lower back itself, and that Plaintiff was possibly embellishing her symptoms (id.). Dr. Katz administered lumbar ESIs at L5-S1 on August 25, 2008, and September 22, 2008 (tr. 361-62), and a selective nerve root block at L3-4 on October 6, 2008 (tr. 368). In October 2008, Plaintiff reported a fifty percent reduction of her symptoms (tr. 369). Subsequent treatment records reflect that Plaintiff continued to complain of pain in her lower back and received medication for the pain. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 On June 19, 2009, Plaintiff presented to an emergency room ("ER") with complaints of back pain, neck pain, and chest pain, among other complaints, and she stated she had run out of Lortab (see tr. 567[fn5]). A lumbar spine x-ray revealed disc space narrowing at L5-S1, but the lumbar vertebrae were otherwise normal (tr. 575). On a treatment record for this ER visit, a box is checked indicating that an examination of Plaintiff's back was normal, but a handwritten notation on the same record \'97 which notation is partially illegible and appears to reflect a report by Plaintiff \'97 indicates "midline pain" at L4-5, with radiation into the right leg (tr. 568). The record also reflects that Plaintiff's motor responses and sensation were intact, bilaterally ( id.). Plaintiff was assessed with acute exacerbation of chronic back pain and sciatica ( id.). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 In January 2010, Plaintiff returned to the ER and complained of back pain (tr. 560). A lumbar spine x-ray revealed mild degenerative changes in the upper spine and [*5] advanced DDD at L4-5 and L5-S1 (tr. 564). A physical examination revealed mild tenderness in the lower spine and some decreased range of motion, although straight leg raising tests were negative, bilaterally (tr. 560). Plaintiff, who was noted to be "improved" upon her discharge, was assessed with acute low back pain and DDD and advised to follow up with Dr. West ( id.). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Plaintiff returned to the ER on March 19, 2010, with complaints of chest pain (tr. 527). She explained she had been "walking around a pond while trying to fish on [March 18, 2010]" and began to experience chest pain, discomfort, and pressure (tr. 528, 531, 587). Plaintiff also reported a history of "some chronic back pain" (tr. 532-33). A physical examination revealed normal motor responses, normal sensation, and full range of motion in all extremities (tr. 541-42). Although medication relieved her chest pain (tr. 541), a diagnostic cardiac catheterization was scheduled for March 22, 2010 (tr. 538). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Plaintiff returned to the ER on March 23, 2010, with complaints of groin pain and bruising related to the heart catheterization (see tr. 518, 526). She denied back pain (tr. 518), and an inspection of her back was normal, as were tests of her motor and sensory responses (tr. 519-20). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 At a visit with Roland Spedale, M.D.,[fn6] in October 2010, Plaintiff complained of continued pain symptoms. Upon examination, Dr. Spedale diagnosed degenerative arthritis with suspected cervical spine disease and prescribed Ultram. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 B. Evidence Related to Plaintiff's Other Medical Conditions 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Treatment records reflect that Plaintiff had diabetes mellitus during the relevant period, for which she took Metformin, and that her diabetes was controlled with medication. Plaintiff also had hypertension, for which she took various medications that were adjusted from time to time. Although Plaintiff's blood pressure was noted to be elevated at times, her hypertension was largely (and sufficiently) under control with medication (see, e.g., tr. 497, treatment record noting that Plaintiff's blood pressure was satisfactory; see also tr. 582, noting blood pressure of 100/80). Similarly, Plaintiff was assessed with osteoarthritis, asthma, and asthmatic bronchitis, as well as wheezing and congestion, but she took medications for these conditions which controlled them. Finally, as previously noted, Plaintiff was obese and did not lose weight as recommended (see, e.g., tr. 507, Dr. West's noting, in March 2010, that Plaintiff was continuing to gain weight after being "strongly admonished to work on her weight" in late December 2009 (tr. 508)). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 C. Evidence Addressing Plaintiff's Physical Capacities 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 On October 13, 2008, Robert Steele, M.D., a non-examining agency physician opined that Plaintiff could occasionally lift or carry twenty pounds, frequently lift or carry ten pounds, and stand, walk, and sit six hours in an eight-hour workday (tr. 375). He also opined that Plaintiff could push or pull and perform most postural activities without limit but was occasionally limited with regard to climbing ladders, ropes, or scaffolds (tr. 375-76). Finally, Dr. Steele opined that Plaintiff had [*6] no manipulative, visual, or communicative limitations, but he recommended that Plaintiff avoid concentrated exposure to vibration (tr. 377-78). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 On or about September 15, 2009, Dr. West completed a form titled Physical Capacities Evaluation (hereafter "PCE"). On this form he opined that Plaintiff could lift ten pounds occasionally and five pounds frequently, sit two hours a day, and stand or walk one hour a day (tr. 494). He stated Plaintiff could never climb stairs, push and pull arm or leg controls, perform gross manipulation (i.e., "grasping, twisting and handling"), bend or stoop, reach, operate a motor vehicle, or work around hazardous machinery ( id.). He also noted that Plaintiff did not require an assistive device to walk during a normal workday and stated that Plaintiff would be absent from work more than four days a month ( id.). When asked to explain and briefly describe the basis for any restriction indicated on the form, Dr. West replied, "Pt. totally disabled" ( id.).[fn7] Dr. West also completed a form titled Clinical Assessment of Pain ("CAP") (tr. 495). On this form, which has three questions and four, pre-printed options/answers for each question, Dr. West opined: (1) "pain is present to such an extent as to be distracting to adequate performance of daily activities or work"; (2) physical activity, such as walking, standing, or sitting, will "greatly increase[] pain to such a degree as to cause distraction from tasks or total abandonment of task"; and (3) "drug side effects can be expected to be severe and to limit effectiveness due to distraction, in attention [sic], drowsiness, etc." ( id.). 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 D. Plaintiff's Subjective Complaints of Pain and Other Symptoms 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 At her hearing held October 28, 2010, Plaintiff testified that she suffers from back problems, diabetes, hypertension, asthma, and osteoarthritis (tr. 40). She stated she has pain in her upper back, lower back, hip, legs, and feet, and that her pain medications cause her to become disoriented, confused, dizzy, and drowsy (tr. 49, 69, 74, 81). Plaintiff estimated that she can lift and carry eight to ten pounds, and stand or walk ten to fifteen minutes (tr. 71-72). She reported difficulty with balancing, standing, sitting, bending, stooping, twisting, and turning (tr. 74, 81). She also stated she always uses a cane when she goes outside or between the living room and bathroom (tr. 52-53) and that when she shops she uses a motorized cart or leans on the shopping cart (tr. 69-70). On a ten-point scale, with ten being the worst pain, Plaintiff testified that the pain she "feel[s] all the time" is "anywhere from a five to a seven" (tr. 76). She stated that lying down eases her pain and that standing and walking ease the numbness in her legs (tr. 76-77). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Plaintiff further testified that she can dress herself (but not tie her shoes), wash dishes, wipe the table, fold the laundry, make sandwiches, and microwave grits, but she needs help from her daughter to make large meals, and she cannot sweep or mop (tr. 65-71). She also stated she needs help from her husband to get in and out of the bathtub and wash her back (tr. 66). She testified she goes on the internet occasionally and watches the news but has difficulty focusing [*7] and concentrating (tr. 68, 80). Finally, Plaintiff testified she attends church twice a month but requires a break during church services (tr. 72). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 E. Testimony of the Vocational Expert 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 A vocational expert ("VE") testified at Plaintiff's hearing. In summary, the VE testified that a hypothetical person with Plaintiff's RFC could not perform her past relevant work as a horticultural nursery sales person, laboratory assistant, general clerk, insulation worker, cleanup worker, lathe operator, or patcher, as she performed these jobs at light or greater levels of exertion (tr. 83-85). The hypothetical person could, however, perform other available work, including work as a dispatcher, order clerk, and general office clerk, all of which are performed at the sedentary level of exertion and otherwise accommodate Plaintiff's RFC (tr. 85-87). 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 V. DISCUSSION 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Plaintiff contends the ALJ erred by rejecting the opinions of Dr. West, a treating physician, and by discounting her subjective complaints of pain and other symptoms. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 A. Opinions of Dr. West 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 As previously noted, Dr. West opined that Plaintiff is "totally disabled"; he also provided opinions on the PCE and CAP forms. The ALJ assigned no weight to Dr. West's opinion that Plaintiff is disabled and little weight to his opinions on the forms (tr. 23). Plaintiff contends the ALJ erred in doing so. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Substantial weight must be given to the opinion, diagnosis and medical evidence of a treating physician unless there is good cause to do otherwise. See Lewis v. Callahan, 125 F.3d 1436, 1439-1441 (11th Cir. 1997); Edwards v.Sullivan, 937 F.2d 580, 583 (11th Cir. 1991); Sabo v. Chater, 955 F.Supp. 1456, 1462 (M.D. Fla. 1996); 20 C.F.R. \'a7 404.1527(c). "'[G]ood cause' exists when the: (1) treating physician's opinion was not bolstered by the evidence; (2) evidence supported a contrary finding; or (3) treating physician's opinion was conclusory or inconsistent with the doctor's own medical records." Phillips v. Barnhart, 357 F.3d 1232, 1240-41 (11th Cir. 2004) (citation omitted). The ALJ may discount a treating physician's opinion or report regarding an inability to work if it is unsupported by objective medical evidence or is wholly conclusory. See Edwards, 937 F.2d 580 (finding that the ALJ properly discounted treating physician's report where the physician was unsure of the accuracy of his findings and statements). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 However, if a treating physician's opinion on the nature and severity of a claimant's impairments is well supported by medically acceptable clinical and laboratory diagnostic techniques, and is not inconsistent with the other substantial evidence in the record, the ALJ must give it controlling weight. 20 C.F.R. \'a7 404.1527(c)(2). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 When a treating physician's opinion does not warrant controlling weight, the ALJ must nevertheless weigh the medical opinion based on: (1) the length of the treatment relationship and the frequency of examination; (2) the nature and extent of the treatment relationship; (3) medical evidence supporting the opinion; (4) consistency with the record as a whole; (5) specialization in the medical issues at issue; and (6) other factors which tend to support or contradict the opinion. 20 C.F.R. \'a7 404.1527(c). Generally, a treating physician's opinion is entitled to more weight than a consulting [*8]physician's opinion. See Wilson v. Heckler, 734 F.2d 513, 518 (11th Cir. 1984); see also 20 C.F.R. \'a7 404.1527(c)(2). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The ALJ is required to review all of the medical findings and other evidence that support a medical source's statement that a claimant is disabled. However, the ALJ is responsible for making the ultimate determination about whether a claimant meets the statutory definition of disability. 20 C.F.R. \'a7 404.1527(d). The ALJ is not required to give any special significance to the status of a physician as treating or non-treating in weighing an opinion on whether a claimant meets a listed impairment, a claimant's RFC (see 20 C.F.R. \'a7\'a7 404.1545 and 404.1546), or the application of vocational factors, because those ultimate determinations are the province of the Commissioner. 20 C.F.R. \'a7 404.1527(d). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Here, in assessing the opinions of Dr. West, the ALJ noted, correctly, that the question of whether a claimant is disabled is a question reserved to the Commissioner, and thus he did not err in assigning no weight Dr. West's opinion that Plaintiff is "totally disabled" (tr. 23). The ALJ also noted that Dr. West's opinion of total disability, and his opinions contained on the PCE and CAP forms, are not supported by the objective medical evidence ( id.). The ALJ did not err in so concluding. The results of Plaintiff's MRIs, x-rays, and physical examinations do not support an opinion that Plaintiff is totally disabled or restricted to the extent indicated by Dr. West on the forms. For example, after reviewing an updated MRI and physically examining Plaintiff in May 2008, neurosurgeon Dr. Warren released Plaintiff to work with no restrictions.[fn8] Additionally, straight leg raising tests were negative in August 2008 and January 2010. And multiple physical examinations revealed no or only minor abnormalities, including those conducted by Dr. Warren, Dr. Katz, and ER staff. Finally, the ALJ noted that Plaintiff's own testimony was inconsistent with the opinions expressed by Dr. West ( id.). For example, the ALJ noted, Dr. West opined that Plaintiff could never reach, push or pull with her arms, perform gross manipulation, bend, or stoop, but Plaintiff testified she could perform various daily activities that require such abilities, including folding the laundry, washing dishes, and making light meals ( id.). These findings of the ALJ are wholly supported by the record. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 In sum, the ALJ clearly articulated his reasons for rejecting Dr. West's opinions. The reasons stated are supported by substantial record evidence, and thus Plaintiff is not entitled to reversal on this ground. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 B. ALJ's Credibility Findings 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Plaintiff contends the ALJ erred in discounting her complaints of disabling pain and limitations because the ALJ failed to "provid[e] any rationale articulating how he arrived at [his] credibility finding" (doc. 19 at 15). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 In Holt v. Sullivan, 921 F.2d 1221, 1223 (11th Cir. 1991), the court articulated the "pain standard," which applies when a disability claimant attempts to establish a disability through her own testimony of pain or other subjective symptoms. The pain standard requires: (1) evidence of an underlying medical condition and either (a) objective medical evidence that confirms the severity [*9] of the alleged pain arising from that condition, or (b) that the objectively determined medical condition is of such a severity that it can be reasonably expected to give rise to the alleged pain. Holt, 921 F.2d at 1223 (internal citation omitted). If a claimant testifies as to her subjective complaints of disabling pain and other symptoms, as Plaintiff did here, the ALJ must clearly "articulate explicit and adequate reasons" for discrediting the claimant's allegations of completely disabling symptoms. Foote, 67 F.3d at 1561-62. Additionally, "'[a]lthough this circuit does not require an explicit finding as to credibility, . . . the implication must be obvious to the reviewing court.'"  Id. at 1562 (quoting Tieniber v. Heckler, 720 F.2d 1251, 1255 (11th Cir. 1983)). The credibility determination does not need to cite "'particular phrases or formulations'" but it cannot merely be a broad rejection which is "'not enough to enable [the district court or this Court] to conclude that [the ALJ] considered her medical condition as a whole.'" Id. (quoting Jamison v. Bowen, 814 F.2d 585, 588-90 (11th Cir. 1987)). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Here, the ALJ articulated the corrected pain standard (tr. 22). He then summarized Plaintiff's hearing testimony regarding her pain, physical limitations, and daily activities (see id.). Next, the ALJ stated: 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 After careful consideration of the evidence, the undersigned finds that the claimant's medically determinable impairments could reasonably be expected to cause the alleged symptoms; however, the claimant's statements concerning the intensity, persistence and limiting effects of these symptoms are not credible to the extent they are inconsistent with the above [RFC] assessment. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 In terms of the claimant's alleged [DDD], the undersigned finds that this impairment causes some limitations. However, there is no sufficient evidence that the claimant cannot perform work at a sedentary level. Therefore, the undersigned finds that the above [RFC] accommodates limitations caused by the claimant's [DDD]. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 (tr. 22-23).[fn9]
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The ALJ's findings regarding Plaintiff's complaints of pain and limitations related to her DDD preclude meaningful review by this court and require remand for further administrative proceedings. In short, the ALJ articulated only one reason for discounting those complaints, namely, that "there is no sufficient evidence that [she] cannot perform work at a sedentary level." But the ALJ failed to point to any evidence in the record in support of this reason or otherwise explain it.[fn10]
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The Commissioner, in contending that the ALJ committed no error in discrediting Plaintiff's subjective complaints, argues that Plaintiff "was not functionally limited so as to be disabled from performing the minimal demands of sedentary work" (doc. 16 at 16). In support, the Commissioner points to the following evidence of record: (1) Dr. Katz's opinions that Plaintiff was likely embellishing her complaints; (2) Dr. Warren's releasing Plaintiff to work; (3) Plaintiff's daily activities; (4) the decompression surgery (which, the Commissioner contends, provided "relief"); (5) the physical therapy (which, the Commissioner contends, "was effective in relieving [*10] her pain"); (6) the ESI's administered by Dr. Katz (which, the Commissioner contends, "improved [Plaintiff's] back pain"); and (7) Plaintiff's testimony that she used a cane prescribed by Dr. West, even though Dr. West indicated on the PCE that she did not require a cane (doc. 16 at 16 (citing, with one exception, the medical record, not the ALJ's decision)). The Commissioner's arguments miss the mark because they are based on post hoc rationalizations and offered here to explain the ALJ's credibility findings, but neither the Commissioner nor this court may create such rationalizations to explain the ALJ's treatment of evidence when that treatment is not apparent from the ALJ's decision itself. FPC v. TexacoInc., 417 U.S. 380, 397, 94 S.Ct. 2315, 2326, 41 L.Ed.2d 141 (1974) (if an action is to be upheld, it must be upheld on the same bases articulated in the agency's order, not those proffered by appellate counsel as post hoc rationalizations for agency actions). Thus, even if the evidence cited here by the Commissioner supports the ALJ's credibility findings, this court cannot uphold those findings. See, e.g., Zblewski v. Schweiker, 732 F.2d 75, 78-79 (7th Cir. 1984) (while strong grounds may have existed for rejecting claimant's testimony, ALJ's failure to articulate reasons for doing so precludes meaningful appellate review); Cline v. Sullivan, 939 F.2d 560, 565(8th Cir. 1991) ("It is not enough that inconsistencies may be said to exist, the ALJ must set forth the inconsistencies in the evidence . . . ") (emphasis added); see also Baker v. Comm'r of Soc. Sec., 384 F. App'x 893, 896 (11th Cir. 2010) (affirming denial of benefits because the agency's action could be upheld based on the ALJ's opinion rather than on a post hoc rationalization) (citation omitted). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Although the ALJ did discuss Plaintiff's daily activities in his decision (the "one exception" in the Commissioner's list of seven, referenced supra ), he did so in the context of summarizing the evidence of record and discounting Dr. West's opinions (see tr. 22-23), not specifically in discounting Plaintiff's complaints.[fn11] Moreover, even if it was evident that the ALJ relied on Plaintiff's daily activities to discredit her, a finding the undersigned does not make, his reliance on those activities would be insufficient to support his overall credibility findings. Although Plaintiff testified she could perform some daily activities, as the ALJ noted, she also testified that her ability to do so was restricted (due to physical limitations and medication side effects), and the ALJ failed to adequately address those alleged restrictions or the reasons therefor. See Parker v. Bowen, 793 F.2d 1177, 1180 (11th Cir. 1986) (reliance upon plaintiff's ability to perform "simple household chores" to discount her testimony as to pain was flawed due to failure to consider plaintiff's testimony that she had to lie down every two hours); Foote, 67 F.3d at 1561(a conclusory citation to a plaintiff's "daily activities" as a basis for failing to believe her testimony as to pain was insufficient where there was a medical condition that reasonably could have given rise to the pain described, and, although she testified that she cooked and shopped for herself, she had trouble putting on her clothing); Lewis [*11] v. Callahan, 125 F.3d 1436, 1441 (11th Cir. 1997) (participation in "everyday activities of short duration, such as housework or fishing," does not disqualify a plaintiff from disability, so long as such activities are not inconsistent with limitations recommended by treating physicians). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 In summary, a careful review of the ALJ's decision and credibility findings reveals that he failed to build an accurate and logical bridge between the evidence and the result. Further, this court cannot uphold his credibility findings based on the one reason he specifically articulated in support thereof (i.e., that "there is no sufficient evidence that [Plaintiff] cannot perform work at a sedentary level"). See Social Security Ruling 82-62 (eff. Aug. 20, 1980) ("The rationale for a disability decision must be written so that a clear picture of the case can be obtained. The rationale must follow an orderly pattern and show clearly how specific evidence leads to a conclusion."). Cf. Dyer v. Barnhart, 395 F.3d 1206, 1212(11th Cir. 2005) ("In sum, the ALJ considered Dyer's activities of daily living, the frequency of his symptoms, and the types and dosages of his medications, and concluded that Dyer's subjective complaints were inconsistent with his testimony and the medical record. The ALJ thus adequately explained his reasons and it was reversible error for the district court to hold otherwise.") (citing Wilson v. Barnhart, 284 F.3d 1219, 1226 (11th Cir. 2002) (noting that the "ALJ made a reasonable decision to reject Wilson's subjective testimony, articulating, in detail, the contrary evidence as his reasons for doing so")). In light of the ALJ's error, this case must be remanded for further administrative proceedings. Specifically, the ALJ must reevaluate Plaintiff's credibility in accordance with the correct legal standards and fully explain his findings in an orderly pattern that clearly shows how specific evidence leads to and supports those findings. 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 VI. CONCLUSION 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Upon review of the record before this court, it is the opinion of the undersigned that the findings of fact and determinations of the Commissioner are not supported by substantial evidence; thus, the decision of the Commissioner should be reversed and remanded. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Accordingly, it is ORDERED, pursuant to sentence four of 42 U.S.C. \'a7 405(g), that the decision of the Commissioner is REVERSED, the Commissioner is ordered to remand this case to the administrative law judge for further proceedings consistent with this order, and the Clerk is directed to close the file. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn1] All references to "tr." refer to the transcript of Social Security Administration record filed on December 13, 2012 (doc. 11). Moreover, the page numbers refer to those found on the lower right-hand corner of each page of the transcript, as opposed to those assigned by the court's electronic docketing system or any other page numbers that may appear. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn2] Accordingly, the time frame relevant to Plaintiff's claim for DIB is January 31, 2008 (alleged onset date), through January 24, 2011 (date of ALJ's decision), even though she was insured under the Act through December 2012. The time frame relevant to her claim for SSI is August 7, 2008 (the date she applied for SSI), through January 24, 2011. See Moore v. Barnhart, 405 F.3d 1208, 1211 (11th Cir. 2005) (indicating that SSI claimant becomes eligible to receive benefits in the first month in which she is both disabled and has an SSI application on file). Thus, in general, the time frame relevant to this appeal is February 2008 through January 2011, which will hereafter be referred to as the "relevant period." 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn3] In general, the legal standards applied are the same regardless of whether a claimant seeks DIB or SSI, but separate, parallel statutes and regulations exist for DIB and SSI claims (see 20 C.F.R. \'a7\'a7 404, 416). Therefore, citations in this Order should be considered to refer to the appropriate parallel provision. The same applies to citations of statutes or regulations found in quoted court decisions. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn4] Unless otherwise indicated, the information in this section is derived from the ALJ's opinion (tr. 17-26). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn5] Plaintiff also reported that she needed no assistance with activities of daily living, such as dressing, performing hygiene-related activities, and being mobile (tr. 569). She made the same report on at least two subsequent visits to the ER (see tr. 520-21, 561). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn6] Dr. Spedale's treatment note reflects that Dr. West had retired (tr. 599). It thus appears that Dr. Spedale took over Plaintiff's care at Internal Medicine Associates of Dothan, Alabama (see id.). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn7] Previously, on September 15, 2009, Dr. West stated that Plaintiff "continues to be disabled with her back, walking with a cane"; that she was "appealing her disability situation with the help of an attorney"; and that he had filled out a form "in regard to this" (i.e., Plaintiff's attempt to obtain disability benefits) (tr. 496). In the same treatment note he stated, "Again, it is my impression that [Plaintiff] is completely and totally disabled from the bases of her back and also because of the pain medicines which she requires to get a level of comfort with her back." (Tr. 496). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn8] As noted supra , Dr. Warren treated Plaintiff for a work-related lifting injury, which injury she incurred while performing a job at a greater-than-sedentary exertional level. Thus, his releasing Plaintiff to work with no restrictions indicates a belief by Dr. Warren that Plaintiff could perform work that required greater physical capacities than those set forth in the RFC. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn9] With regard to Plaintiff's diabetes mellitus, hypertension, osteoarthritis, and asthma, the ALJ found that Plaintiff's symptoms were sufficiently controlled with medication (tr. 23). This aspect of the ALJ's credibility finding is substantially supported by the record (and Plaintiff does not contend otherwise). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn10] To the extent the ALJ's lone reason is construed as a finding that no objective medical evidence exists confirming Plaintiff's symptoms (and therefore her complaints are not credible), the ALJ erred. "[I]n certain situations, pain alone can be disabling, even when its existence is unsupported by objective evidence." Foote, 67 F.3d at 1561 (citing Marbury v. Sullivan, 957 F.2d 837, 839 (11th Cir. 1992)); see also Cline v. Sullivan, 939 F.2d 560, 566 (8th Cir. 1991) ("an ALJ may not base a denial of benefits solely on a lack of objective medical evidence") (citations omitted). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn11] In some cases it is evident that an ALJ relied on the same reasons for discounting a treating physician's opinion in discounting a claimant's subjective complaints, even though the ALJ failed to directly state that he was doing so. In those cases, the "implication [of the ALJ's findings is] obvious to the reviewing court." Foote, 67 F.3d at 1562 (quoting Tieniber, 720 F.2d at 1255). The same cannot be said in this case. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb566\sa1133\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0          
\f0\fs42 General Information\

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 Judge(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 ELIZABETH M TIMOTHY\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Related Docket(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 5:12-cv-00307 (N.D. Fla.);\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Topic(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Administrative Law; Evidence; Social Security\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Industries\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Disability Insurance\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Date Filed\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 2014-01-15 00:00:00\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Parties\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 PATRICIA McADAMS, Plaintiff, vs. CAROLYN W. COLVIN, Acting Commissioner of Social Security, Defendant.\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Case Type\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 SO\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Court\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 United States District Court for the Northern District of Florida\cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\li674\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\fs20 \cf0 Pagination \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 *
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 BL
\f1\fs24 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\li674\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 United States District Court, N.D. Florida \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 MARY SOWELL et al., Plaintiffs, v. TARGET CORPORATION, Defendant. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 CASE NO. 5:14-cv-93-RS-GRJ. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 May 28, 2014. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
ORDER 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\
Gary R. Jones, Magistrate Judge 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\
Pending before the Court is Defendants' Motion for Protective Order, Doc. 12, to which Plaintiffs have filed a response in opposition. Doc. 15. Defendant seeks a protective order regarding production of a store surveillance video depicting Plaintiff's slip and fall accident. Alternatively, Defendant requests the Court to enter an order allowing Defendant to withhold production of the video until after the Defendant has taken the deposition of Plaintiff. For the reasons discussed below, Defendant's Motion for Protective Order is due to be denied. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 DISCUSSION 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The issue before the Court is whether the digital recording of a surveillance video taken by Defendant's in-store cameras depicting the slip and fall in this case is protected from disclosure under the work product privilege. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Defendant contends that the footage of the video surveillance was prepared in anticipation of litigation because the "defendant went out of its way to create and preserve a digital recording from the video in order to assist in the preparation of its defense to potential litigation." Doc. 12, p. 3. According to Defendant, the video taken by Defendant's store cameras would have been erased in the ordinary course of business after a period of time but instead was preserved and maintained under the direction and policies of Defendant's claims department. Notably absent, however, from the record is any declaration or other evidence submitted by Defendant regarding the policy of Defendant, if any, for recording over surveillance tapes or any evidence identifying the policy of Target for retaining the video when there is an accident in the store. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The claim in this case is straightforward. Plaintiff alleges she was injured as a result of a slip and fall in a Target Store. As part of Plaintiff's routine discovery requests, Plaintiff requested Defendant to produce "[a] copy of any video showing Plaintiff's . . . fall or area where Plaintiff . . . fell." The digital recording of the surveillance video Defendant seeks to protect as work product is directly responsive to Plaintiff's discovery request. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The work product doctrine has its origins in Hickman v. Taylor, 329 U.S. 495 (1947) and was eventually incorporated into Rule 26(b)(3) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure. Rule 26(b)(3) provides in pertinent part: "[O]rdinarily, a party may not discover documents and tangible things that are prepared in anticipation of litigation or for trial by or for another party or its representative (including the other party's attorney . . . or agent)" Thus, as contemplated, the work-product doctrine protects from disclosure materials prepared by an attorney or by an agent of a party[fn1] in anticipation of litigation. Unlike the attorney-client privilege, the scope of protection provided by the work product doctrine is a procedural question and thus governed by federal, as [*2] opposed to state law in a diversity action. Camachov. Nationwide Mut. Ins. Co., 287 F.R.D. 688, 694 (N.D. Ga. 2012). The burden is on Defendant, the party withholding discovery, to show that the document or thing should be afforded work-product protection. Essex Builders Group,Inc. v. Amerisure Ins. Co., no. 6:04-cv-1838-Orl-22JGG, [2006 BL 70449], 2006 WL 1733857 (M.D. Fla. June 20, 2006) (citations omitted). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 There is no consensus among the courts as to whether surveillance videos are prepared in anticipation of litigation and thus subject to protection as work product. For example, in Bolitho v. Home Depot, no. 10-60053-CIV-Cohn/Seltzer, 2010 WL 2639639 (S.D. Fla. June 3, 2010) the Court there concluded that a surveillance video of a slip and fall in a store was protected work product where the plaintiff returned to the store two hours later to report the incident, which caused Plaintiff to copy and preserve the surveillance video. In contrast, in Schulte v. NCL (Bahamas)Ltd., no. 10-23265-CIV, 2011 WL 256542 (S.D. Fla. Jan. 25, 2011) the Court concluded that a surveillance video of a slip and fall incident aboard a cruise ship was not protected work product even though it was copied and preserved at the request of counsel for the cruise line. The Schulte court reasoned that the surveillance video was not work product when it was created because it was taken and recorded in the ordinary course of business and not in anticipation of litigation. The defendant there argued that the surveillance video became subject to work product protection when it was preserved, and not copied over, based upon instructions by NCL's counsel. The Schulte court rejected this argument concluding that preserving the tape was carried out pursuant to the defendant's duty to preserve evidence. The Court wrote: 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 It would be anomalous, to say the least, if by ordering a client to preserve evidence created in the ordinary course of business, in anticipation of litigation, counsel was able to shield that evidence from production based upon work product protection. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Id., at *3. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The approach taken in Schulte makes the most sense. A document or thing is subject to work product protection when the proponent of the privilege demonstrates that at the time the document or thing was prepared the entity anticipated litigation. CSX Transp., Inc. v. Admiral Ins. Co., 1995 WL 855421, at *2 (M.D. Fla. July 20, 1995). On the other hand, materials prepared in the ordinary course of business are not protected. Id.The key determination, therefore, in assessing the applicability of the work product privilege, is when the document or thing was created and why the document or thing was created. See, e.g. In re Sealed Case, 146 F.3d 881, 884 (D.C. Cir. 1998) ("The 'testing question for the work-product privilege . . . is 'whether, in light of the nature of document and the factual situation in the particular case, the document can fairly be said to have been prepared or obtained because of the prospect of litigation.'"). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The surveillance video in this case was taken and recorded in the routine and ordinary course of business of Target. There is no evidence (nor does Defendant argue) that the store surveillance video system was implemented [*3] or created because of the prospect of litigation. Indeed, common sense dictates that store surveillance videos are utilized by stores to prevent and detect theft by customers or by store employees. Consequently, Defendant has not demonstrated that the recording of the slip and fall in this case during the store's routine surveillance was created in anticipation of litigation. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Moreover, as the Schulte court concluded the mere act of preserving the tape \'97 as opposed to creating the original recording \'97 is not sufficient to transform a document created in the ordinary course of business into work product protected from disclosure.[fn2] Indeed, if that was the law literally ever piece of electronically stored information ("ESI") preserved by a defendant as part of a defendant's duty of preservation would be off limits in discovery because it would be considered work product. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Lastly, to the extent that the act of preserving the tape and not erasing it could be viewed as being created in anticipation of litigation, the Defendant has failed to meet its burden of demonstrating how the tape was created or why it was created \'97 essential information for determining whether a document or thing was created in anticipation of litigation. This case is therefore different from those cases where courts have concluded that incident reports created after a slip and fall were protected as work product. See, e.g. Fojtasek v. NCL (Bahamas) Ltd., 262 F.R.D. 650 (S.D. Fla. 2009); Alexander v. Carnival Corporation, 238 F.R.D. 318 (S.D. Fla. 2006). In those cases the proponent of the work product privilege submitted affidavits from its claims manager (or other suitable person) that it was the policy of the cruise line based upon the advice of its legal counsel to investigate customer injuries and create an accident report. In this case because the Defendant has not submitted any declaration or other evidence concerning when the tape was recorded or even whether it was created at the express request of counsel or risk management the Court is left to guess as to whether the tape was preserved after or before Defendant received notice of a potential claim by the Plaintiff. Indeed, to the extent that the tape simply was preserved as part of a general policy of preserving the surveillance tapes in every instance where a customer slips and falls the practice would be more akin to a routine business practice rather than an action taken by the defendant in anticipation of litigation. The Court, however, need not speculate as to when the tape was preserved or the reason the tape was preserved because the Defendant has failed to submit any evidence on the issue. Accordingly, the Defendant has failed to meet its burden of demonstrating that the surveillance video should be protected from disclosure as work product. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Defendant alternatively requests the Court to delay production of the store surveillance tape until after the Plaintiff's deposition has been completed in the event the Court determines that the video is not protected by the work product privilege. According [*4] to Defendant, it has the right to hear Plaintiff's unrefreshed recollection of events so as to prevent Plaintiff from altering her testimony to mirror what the tape shows. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Courts addressing this issue \'97 like the issue of whether the surveillance videos are work product \'97 have taken conflicting views on whether production of the video should be delayed. District courts ordering that delay in production is justified have relied primarily upon the rationale that requiring a plaintiff to provide independent recollection of the incident does not prejudice the plaintiff and delaying disclosure of the video precludes any possibility of a plaintiff tailoring her testimony to the video. See, e.g.Bolitho v. Home Depot, USA, Inc., 2010 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 76487, *4 (S.D. Fla. June 3, 2010) (denying plaintiff's motion to compel store surveillance video prior to her deposition); Parks v. NCL (Bahamas) Ltd., 285 F.R.D. 674 (S.D. Fal. 2012) ("The Court agrees with Defendant that Plaintiff should be required to give her deposition testimony bases on her own independent recollection fo the incident, without being refreshed in any way by the videotape."). In contrast, courts that have refused to delay disclosure of surveillance videos have focused upon whether the video was to be used solely for impeachment purposes or was to be used as substantive evidence. Muzaffarr v. Ross Dress For Less, Inc., 941 F.Supp.2d 1373 (S.D. Fla. 2013); DeHart v. Wal-Mart Stores, East, L.P., no. 4:05cv00061, [2006 BL 19213], 2006 WL 83405 (W.D. Va. Jan. 6, 2006) ("[w]here the substantive value of the evidence predominates, courts have held that production should not be delayed until after deposition.") Courts also have considered whether the defendant has pointed to any evidence that disclosure of the video would lead a plaintiff to improperly tailor her testimony. Schulte, at, *4. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 While the Court concludes there may be circumstances justifying delay in disclosure of a surveillance tape, the Court finds that Defendant here has not pointed to any justification for delaying disclosure of the tape other than unsupported speculation that the Plaintiff's testimony may be altered in some way to reflect the events on the surveillance tape. The surveillance tape in this case \'97 which the Defendant has submitted and the Court has reviewed \'97 depicts what appears to be a typical slip and fall accident. The tape was not produced by an investigator depicting Plaintiff engaging in activities inconsistent with her claimed injuries. If that was the case there would be a compelling reason to delay disclosure of the tape. Because the tape here depicts the incident giving rise to Plaintiff's claim its primary evidentiary value is proof of the underlying facts surrounding the incident and not primarily for impeachment purposes. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 There is also another reason not to delay disclosure of the surveillance tape. If the Court was to delay disclosure of the videotape until after the Plaintiff's deposition, the store employees, who witnessed the incident, presumably would have the benefit of viewing the tape before their depositions are taken, thus, creating a disadvantage. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 In sum, the [*5] surveillance video is substantive evidence of the slip and fall incident that does not appear to have any great value as impeachment evidence. The video is not protected by the work product privilege and therefore delaying production of the video would deprive Plaintiff of the opportunity to obtain discovery to which she is entitled. The Defendant has not offered any specific information demonstrating that disclosure of the video would cause Plaintiff improperly to tailor her testimony. And to the extent that viewing the surveillance video could cause a witness to tailor his or her testimony delaying disclosure of the surveillance video potentially could provide the Defendant with an advantage because its witnesses would have the benefit of viewing the video before their depositions are conducted and Plaintiff would not. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Accordingly, for these reasons, the Court concludes that the circumstances in this case do not warrant delaying the disclosure of the surveillance video. The Defendant is required to make arrangements to produce the surveillance video for inspection and copying before Plaintiff's deposition. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Accordingly, it is ORDERED:
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 (1) Defendant's Motion for Protective Order, Doc. 12, is DENIED. Defendant must produce the surveillance video for inspection and copying prior to Plaintiff's deposition. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 (2) Defend a nt's Motion To Seal Protected Materials, Doc. 13, is GRANTED in part and DENIED in part. The request is granted to the limited extent that the Court was required to review the videotape in camera before ruling on Defendant's Motion for Protective Order. Because the Court has denied Defendant's Motion for Protective Order there is no reason to seal the videotape and therefore the Clerk is directed to unseal the videotape filed at Doc. 19. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 DONE AND ORDERED.
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn1] The material need not be prepared by an attorney since Rule 26(b)(3)expressly extends protection to materials prepared by or for a representative of a party, including his agent. Advisory Committee Note to Rule 26(b)(3). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn2] Schulte relied upon Target Corp. Vogel, 41 So.3d 962, 963 (Fla. Dist. Ct. App. 2010, a Florida state law case, as highly persuasive. The court in Vogel held that a surveillance video recorded by the store as part of its ordinary course of business is not work product as opposed to surveillance video taken after the incident. While the Court recognizes that the determination of whether a document or thing is work product is controlled by federal and not state law, Florida law regarding the work product privilege is largely consistent with federal law. Vogel is also particularly instructive here because the defendant there and the defendant here are the same. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb566\sa1133\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0          
\f0\fs42 General Information\

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 Judge(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Gary R. Jones\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Related Docket(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 5:14-cv-00093 (N.D. Fla.);\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Topic(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Civil Procedure\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Date Filed\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 2014-05-28 00:00:00\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Parties\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 MARY SOWELL et al., Plaintiffs, v. TARGET CORPORATION, Defendant.\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Case Type\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 SO\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Court\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 United States District Court for the Northern District of Florida\cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\li674\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\fs20 \cf0 Pagination \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 *
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 BL
\f1\fs24 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\li674\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Majority Opinion > 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE MIDDLE DISTRICT OF FLORIDA, ORLANDO DIVISION\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0  \uc0\u8232 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 HEALTH FIRST, INC., Plaintiff, v. RICHARD HYNES, Defendant. 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0  \uc0\u8232 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Case No: 6:11-cv-715-Orl-41KRS \
September 1, 2016, Filed September 1, 2016, Decided \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 For Health First, Inc., Plaintiff: Dominic C. MacKenzie, LEAD ATTORNEY, Holland & Knight, LLP, Jacksonville, FL; Jerome W. Hoffman, Mia Loraine McKown, LEAD ATTORNEYS, Kevin W. Cox, Holland & Knight, LLP, Tallahassee, FL.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 For Richard Hynes, M. D., Defendant: Allan Paxton Whitehead, LEAD ATTORNEY, Frese, Hansen, Anderson, Anderson, Heuston & Whitehead, PA, Melbourne, FL; Christopher Vincent Carlyle, LEAD ATTORNEY, The Carlyle Appellate Law Firm, The Villages, FL.
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 CARLOS E. MENDOZA, UNITED STATES DISTRICT JUDGE.
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 CARLOS E. MENDOZA \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 ORDER 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 THIS CAUSE is before the Court on Plaintiff's Renewed Motion to Determine Amount and Award Reasonable Attorney's Fees and Non-taxable Costs ("Fees Motion," Doc. 217). On June 27, 2016, United States Magistrate Judge Karla R. Spaulding submitted a Report and Recommendation ("R&R," Doc. 236), in which she recommends that the motion be granted in part and Plaintiff be awarded a portion of its requested fees and expenses. Both Plaintiff and Defendant filed objections to the R&R, (see Pl.'s Obj., Doc. 237; Def.'s Obj., Doc. 238), and Plaintiff filed a response to Defendant's Objection, (Pl.'s Resp., Doc. 240). After an independent de novo review of the record, the R&R will be adopted in part and rejected in part.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 I. Legal Standard 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 A district court is required to review de novo the objected-to portions of a magistrate judge's recommendation and "may accept, reject, or modify, in whole or in part" the recommendation. 28 U.S.C. \'a7 636(b)(1) ; see also Fed. R. Civ. P. 72(b)(3) . Moreover, a district court may "receive further evidence or recommit the matter to the magistrate judge with instructions." 28 U.S.C. \'a7 636(b)(1) .\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 II. Analysis 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Plaintiff requests to recover attorneys' fees for time spent in eight specific categories: (1) fees related to addressing Defendant's eDiscovery requests; (2) fees related to Defendant's request to inspect computers and servers; (3) fees related to pursuing discovery from Defendant's technology expert; (4) fees related to Defendant's summary judgment motion; (5) fees related to Defendant's motion for sanctions for the alleged spoliation of evidence; (6) fees related to Defendant's motion in limine; (7) fees related to the motion for disqualification and to determine privilege; and (8) fees incurred in preparing for and taking this case through trial. With respect to the first, second, third, fifth, and eighth categories, the dollar amount proposed in the R&R will be adopted without further comment. The Court will also adopt the reduction in the hourly rate of paralegal Linda Edgar as unopposed.\
Plaintiff also seeks to recover a portion of its non-taxable costs for fees paid in deposing Defendant's expert and fees paid to Plaintiff's expert to oversee the examination of Plaintiff's computer. Defendant's objection is without merit. Plaintiff will be awarded $13,397.00 in non-taxable costs as set forth in the R&R.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 A. Reasonable Hours 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Judge Spaulding recommends reductions in the total number of compensable hours allowed with respect to Plaintiff'[*2] s response to Defendant's summary judgment motion, motion in limine, and motion to disqualify. Plaintiff objects to all three reductions.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 1. Plaintiff's response to Defendant's motion for summary judgment 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Plaintiff objects to the disallowance of $616.00 for fees incurred in relation to a proposed Rule 11 motion that was never filed. Specifically, Plaintiff contends that although the motion was not ultimately filed, Defendant did supplement his filings with respect to the motion for summary judgment to correct the factual error contained therein. (See Def.'s Supp. to Mot. Summ. J., Doc. 100). Therefore, Plaintiff contends, these fees were reasonably incurred. The Court agrees and will add $616.00 in this category; Plaintiff will be awarded lodestar fees of $15,836.00 in this category.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 2. Plaintiff's response to Defendant's motion in limine 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 On September 5, 2012, Defendant filed two motions in limine (Doc. Nos. 101, 102), which the Court struck on September 7, 2012, for failure to comply with the Court's case management preferences, (Sept. 7, 2012 Order, Doc. 105). Thereafter, on October 2, 2012, Defendant filed a renewed motion. (Renewed Mot. in Limine, Doc. 120). In the R&R, Judge Spaulding recommends that Plaintiff only be allowed to recover fees incurred after the renewed motion was filed. (R&R at 16-17 ). Plaintiff argues that it should be compensated for work related to the initial Motions in Limine because it reused this work, rather than redoing the work, in responding to the identical renewed motion.\
The Court agrees that Plaintiff should be able to recover for any work which it was not required to duplicate with respect to the renewed motion. However, the Court has found only a total of thirty minutes of time spent on developing a response to the Motions in Limine between September 5, 2012, and September 7, 2012. With respect to the remainder of the claimed time, the Court will not award such time as reasonable. To the extent Plaintiff claims to have incurred fees prior to September 5, 2012, Plaintiff has failed to apprise the Court of the basis on which it was able to review or discuss a motion which had not yet been filed or served on Plaintiff. Additionally, time spent reviewing the initial Motions in Limine is not time which could be saved with respect to the renewed motion. Each motion had to be reviewed independently. Accordingly, a total of $127.50 for 0.5 hours expended by Mr. Cox will be added to the total in this category, and Plaintiff will be awarded $3,931.50.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 3. Plaintiff's response to Defendant's motion to disqualify 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 On September 5, 2012, Defendant filed a Motion to Disqualify the Law Firm of Holland & Knight LLP ("Motion to Disqualify," Doc. 104). On or around that date, a nearly identical motion was also filed in pending litigation between the parties in state court. Judge Charles Holcomb held an evidentiary hearing on the motion in the state court case between September 19, 2012, and October 1, 2012. Plaintiff filed a response to the motion in this Court on September 24, 2012. (Pl.'s Resp. to Mot. to Disqualify, Doc. 114). At a status conference before Judge Spaulding on [*3] October 2, 2012, this Court became aware of the evidentiary hearing held in state court on the same issues. Accordingly, the following day, this Court stayed this case pending the resolution of the motion in state court. (See Oct. 3, 2012 Order, Doc. 123). Defendant ultimately withdrew the motion in this case after he was unsuccessful in state court.\
Plaintiff seeks to recover its fees associated with responding to the Motion to Disqualify and filing its own Motion for Order Determining that No Privilege Applies to Documents Produced by Non-party ("Motion for Order," Doc. 115). Plaintiff also seeks to recover fees associated with two motions for reconsideration of the stay. Judge Spaulding recommends that all of these fees be disallowed as not reasonable. Specifically, Judge Spaulding determined that had Plaintiff informed the Court about the pending motion and hearing in the state court prior to responding to the Motion to Disqualify, this Court would have stayed the case and Plaintiff would not have incurred the fees in connection with the motion. Plaintiff argues that it could not have anticipated that this Court would stay the litigation pending a ruling in state court when the state court ruling would not be binding on this Court, and this Court would have to apply a different standard in ruling on the motion.\
The Court finds Plaintiff's arguments persuasive. Although it may have been more cost effective to have sought a stay or extension prior to filing responsive documents, Plaintiff's actions were not unreasonable. Therefore, the Court will allow Plaintiff to recover fees in connection with its response to the Motion to Disqualify, its Motion for Order, and the related Motion to File Under Seal (Doc. 106). The Court will not, however, award Plaintiff fees for its motions for reconsideration of the stay. Such motions were not reasonably necessary in light of this Court's October 3, 2012 Order sua sponte staying these proceedings, particularly where the relief Plaintiff was requesting had the potential of directly and substantially conflicting with rulings issued by the state court. Additionally, the Court will exclude fees allegedly incurred prior to the date on which the Motion to Disqualify was filed in this Court and served on Plaintiff. Finally, the Court has excluded from its calculation any entry in the billing records which does not clearly specify the nature of the work and has estimated time where block billing was used. Accordingly, the Court finds that the following time and fees will be added to the total in this category:\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 PROFESSIONAL \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 HOURS WORKED \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 HOURLY RATE \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 FEE \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Hoffman\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 28.8\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $385.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $11,088.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 MacKenzie\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 1.0\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $385.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $385.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Boruke\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 54.2\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $375.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $20,325.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 McKown\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 14.9\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $355.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $5,289.50\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Adams\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 37.2\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $345.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $12,834.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Cox\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 60.9\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $255.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $15,529.50\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Mears\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 8.0\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $255.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $2,040.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Hatch\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 1.7\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $165.00\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $280.50\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 TOTAL FEES:\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 $67,771.50\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
All other fees in this category will be disallowed for the reasons set forth herein. Plaintiff is entitled to $78,891.50 in fees for this category.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 B. Adjustments 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 As set forth in the R&R and this Order, Plaintiff incurred reasonable [*4] attorneys' fees in the amount of $288,337.00 before adjustments. Judge Spaulding recommends that this number be adjusted by an across-the-board reduction to account for the fact that only one of Plaintiff's three claims allows for the recovery of attorneys' fees and due to the excessive duplication of efforts by Plaintiff's counsel.\
First, Plaintiff argues that there should not be a reduction to account for the lack of fee shifting provisions in two of the three causes of action. Plaintiff has cited no legal authority in support of its argument that a reduction would not be appropriate. A reduction in the total fee award is appropriate. A substantial portion of the fees incurred in this case were related to research, briefing, and presenting two causes of action for which Plaintiff cannot recover fees. However, it would be nearly impossible to determine exactly which claim was being addressed in each billing entry. Therefore, an across-the-board percentage reduction to account for time spent working on claims for which Plaintiff cannot recover fees is appropriate, and the Court will apply a percentage reduction to the total fees.\
Second, to the extent the parties object to the R&R's findings under the Johnson factors, the objections are not well taken. Although several issues were raised in this case\'97both claims and defenses\'97none of the issues were particularly novel or complex. Thus, Judge Spaulding correctly concluded that the novelty and difficulty of the questions presented had a neutral impact on the proper award of fees in this case. The Court also agrees that the results obtained in this case are neutral. Contrary to Defendant's argument, Plaintiff did not abandon actual damages under the Stored Communications Act. The Court labeled the actual damages as damages under Plaintiff's Computer Fraud and Abuse Act claim, but those damages could have been recovered under the Stored Communications Act claim as well. The Court's election to allocate the damages in a certain way does not impact the attorneys' fees analysis. As to Plaintiff's argument that Judge Spaulding failed to account for nonmonetary damages awarded in this case, the value of those damages does not significantly impact this factor. The results obtained in this case were not minimal, but neither were they extraordinary. Accordingly, this factor is also neutral.\
Finally, the Court agrees with Judge Spaulding that while litigating this case required skilled attorneys, Plaintiff needlessly duplicated the work. There are numerous instances in which Plaintiff's counsel billed for multiple reviews of the same documents and in which several people billed for attending conferences and conferring with each other. Furthermore, although the associates on this case did a substantial amount of work, Plaintiff has provided no justification for the need to have five partners billing a significant portion of the hours in this case. The Court notes that almost half of the hours billed in this litigation were billed by partners. Although [*5] this litigation was contentious and involved several issues, it did not require the skills of five partners to litigate this matter assisted by only two associates. Accordingly, the Court will also apply a percentage reduction to all fees awarded.\
The Court will also apply a percentage reduction to all fees to account for what appear to be\'97albeit likely inadvertent\'97attempts to recover fees for reviewing and addressing motions filed in other litigation between these parties. Specifically, as the Court has noted on two occasions, it appears that Plaintiff was inexplicably able to review and discuss Defendant's motions before they were filed or served in this litigation. The most logical explanation is that Plaintiff was actually reviewing similar documents filed in other cases. While the Court has disallowed such fees where it is clear that there has been bleed-over between the numerous cases, a minimal percentage reduction to all fees would further ensure that Plaintiff does not improperly recover fees for work related to the parties' state court litigation.\
For these reasons, Plaintiff's attorneys' fees award will be reduced by an additional forty percent. This Court found that the hours reasonably spent on this litigation resulted in a total fee of $288,337.00. Minus forty percent\'97$115,334.80\'97the total fees which Plaintiff will be awarded is $173,002.20.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 III. Conclusion 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 In accordance with the foregoing, it is hereby ORDERED and ADJUDGED as follows:\
\pard\pardeftab720\li539\ri539\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 1. The Report and Recommendation (Doc. 236) is ADOPTED in part and made a part of this Order to the extent consistent with that stated herein. In all other respects, the R&R is REJECTED for the reasons stated herein.\
2. Plaintiff's Renewed Motion to Determine Amount and Award Reasonable Attorney's Fees and Non-taxable Costs (Doc. 217) is GRANTED in part.\
3. Plaintiff is awarded $173,002.20 in attorneys' fees and $13,397.00 in costs.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 DONE and ORDERED in Orlando, Florida on September 1, 2016.\
/s/ Carlos E. Mendoza\
CARLOS E. MENDOZA\
UNITED STATES DISTRICT JUDGE
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb566\sa1133\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0          
\f0\fs42 General Information\

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 Judge(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Carlos Eduardo Mendoza\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Related Docket(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 6:11-cv-00715 (M.D. Fla.);\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Topic(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Damages & Remedies\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Date Filed\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 2016-09-01 00:00:00\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Parties\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 HEALTH FIRST, INC., Plaintiff, v. RICHARD HYNES, Defendant.\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Court\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 United States District Court for the Middle District of Florida\cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\li674\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\fs20 \cf0 Pagination \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 *
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 BL
\f1\fs24 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\li674\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Majority Opinion > 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE MIDDLE DISTRICT OF FLORIDA, ORLANDO DIVISION\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0  \uc0\u8232 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 SELECTICA, INC., Plaintiff, v. NOVATUS, INC., Defendant. 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0  \uc0\u8232 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Case No: 6:13-cv-1708-Orl-40TBS \
March 12, 2015, Filed March 12, 2015, Decided \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 For Selectica, Inc., a California corporation, Plaintiff: Andrew Clifford Hall, Brandon Levitt, Jonathan Ray Woodard, LEAD ATTORNEYS, Hall, Lamb & Hall, PA, Miami, FL.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 For Novatus, Inc., a Florida corporation, Defendant: David Storrs Wood, Enid Ginnette Childs, LEAD ATTORNEYS, Akerman Senterfitt, LLP, Orlando, FL; Sara Ann Brubaker, Akerman Senterfitt, LLP - Orlando, Orlando, FL.
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 THOMAS B. SMITH, United States Magistrate Judge.
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 THOMAS B. SMITH \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 ORDER
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 On March 4, 2015, the Court heard oral argument on Plaintiff's Motion for Sanctions Due to Bad Faith Spoliation of Evidence (Doc. 61). For the reasons that follow, the motion is due to be denied.\
Plaintiff Selectica, Inc., employed non-parties, Marilyn Salyer, Vicki Sorenson, Ian Connerty, and Graham Holt as direct sales people (Doc. 1, \'b6 20). Each of them signed Selectica's Proprietary Information and Inventions Agreement (the "Proprietary Agreement"), in which they promised to hold in confidence and not disclose proprietary information that came into their possession except within the scope of their employment ( Id., \'b6 11). They also promised that if they left Selectica they would promptly return all proprietary information to the company ( Id.). In September 2013, they all resigned from Selectica and went to work for its competitor, Defendant Novatus, Inc. ( Id., \'b6\'b6 20-25). Novatus was aware of and had seen a copy of the Proprietary Agreement before it hired Salyer, Sorenson, Connerty, and Holt (Doc. 61 at 4). Selectica complains that prior to their departure, all four individuals accessed and copied its confidential, proprietary information which was downloaded and transferred onto Novatus' computer system when they started their new employment (Doc. 1, \'b6 26; Doc. 61 at 2). Selectica alleges that soon after they began their new employment, Salyer, Sorenson, Connerty, and Holt began using its confidential, proprietary information to unlawfully compete with Selectica (Doc. 61 at 2).\
This motion concerns Holt. While employed by Selectica, he had a company laptop computer which, on Selectica's recommendation, was configured so that it automatically synced to his personal cloud storage account at Box.com (Doc. 71 at 4). This meant that when Holt saved a file to the laptop, the system pushed a copy to his Box account (Doc. 71 at 4). The account did not contain any unique Selectica files, and all the information was accessible by other Selectica employees elsewhere on Selectica's systems ( Id.). Selectica is in possession of the laptop Holt used when he worked for the company and there is no evidence that it was tampered with or altered ( Id., at 4, 7).\
In October 2013, when Holt started at Novatus, he offered to share Selectica's pricing information with Sharon Muniz, a member of Novatus' senior management (Doc. 61 at 5-7). Muniz told Holt to send her the information which he did by emailing her links to the files in his Box account ( Id.; (Doc. 61 at 6; Doc. 71 at 5). At her deposition, Muniz admitted receiving [*2] the links but she testified that she never opened, forwarded, or otherwise accessed the information or Holt's Box account (Doc. 71 at 5-6). Forensic examination of the computer Muniz uses at Novatus confirms that it was not used to open the links ( Id., at 6). There is also no evidence that Muniz opened the links using some other computer. Holt has been deposed and testified that Muniz did not access the information or his Box account ( Id., at 12). If anyone had opened the links Holt sent to Muniz their access would have been restricted to the specific files associated with those links ( Id.). They would not have been able to view anything else, and would not have been able to alter any information ( Id.).\
Selectica filed this lawsuit on November 4 and Novatus answered on November 29, 2013 (Docs. 1 and 5). Selectica's complaint includes counts for misappropriation of trade secrets, conversion of confidential and proprietary information, common law unfair competition, and tortious interference with business relationships ( Id.). When Selectica sued Novatus it also filed a separate lawsuit against Holt individually in state court in California (Hearing).\
Upon learning that it had been sued, Novatus hired a lawyer to defend the action. One of the first things the lawyer did was to advise Novatus about its obligation to preserve evidence relevant to Selectica's claims (Hearing). On December 17, 2013, counsel for Selectica sent a litigation hold letter to counsel for Novatus (Doc. 61-1). When he received the letter, Novatus' lawyer immediately forwarded it, with instructions, to Novatus (Doc. 71, n. 12; Hearing). Novatus did not say anything to Holt concerning the maintenance and preservation of relevant information until sometime in January, 2014 (Doc. 71 at 14). The Court does not know what exactly was said to Holt in January, or if anything was said about his Box account.\
Beginning in November but primarily on the night of December 28, 2013, Holt purged the Selectica files from his Box account (Doc. 61 at 8). The following exchange occurred at Holt's deposition:\
\pard\pardeftab720\li539\ri539\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Q: Your production to Selectica in the case indicates that in a period in November and December, you removed \'97 deleted thousands of files from your Box account. What prompted you to do that?\
A: Finding out about the litigation was what prompted me to do that.\
Q: How much time was there between when you found out about the litigation and when you began deleting the documents from the Box account?\
A: I believe it was only just a few days.\
Q: How did you go about doing that?\
A: The deletion?\
Q: Yes.\
A: I went into the application and just deleted \'97 deleted the subfolders that I thought would, you know, know, potentially put my current employer [Novatus] in jeopardy.\
Q: How did you determine which documents to keep and which to delete?\
A: Again, I \'97 all my folders were a Selectica master folder. Beneath that, marketing material, sales material, customers. So I deleted at a hierarchy. So it just pushed all the documents beneath those hierarchies.\
( Id., at 8-10).\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 After deleting the files Holt emptied his "trash" in order to permanently dispose of the information ([*3]  Id., at 9). Once they were deleted, the files could only be recovered for a maximum of four weeks ( Id., at 9-10 and Hearing). After Novatus spoke to Holt about the preservation of relevant information he made no attempt to contact Box or any other electronic host to undo his mass deletion ( Id., at 20). Despite his actions, and using means not known to the Court, Holt has produced a 68 page list of every file he deleted from his Box account (Doc. 71 at 3).\
Selectica seeks the imposition of sanctions against Novatus based upon what it characterizes as the flagrant spoliation of evidence by Holt. The evidence Selectica alleges was destroyed consists of the files Holt deleted and the metadata associated with those files. Metadata is "[t]he generic term used to describe the structural information of a file that contains data about the file, as opposed to describing the content of a file." The Sedona Conference Glossary: E-Discovery and Digital Information Management (Fourth Edition). In other words, metadata is "data about data." The Sedona Conference Journal, Commentary on Ethics & Metadata (2013). Metadata is discoverable so long as the relevance test in Fed.R.Civ.P. 26(b) is satisfied. U.S. v. Bridgepoint Education, Inc., Case No. 10-CV-01401-JLS (WVG), 305 F.R.D. 225 , [2015 BL 57963], 2015 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 26424 , 2015 WL 818 032 at * 10, 19 (S.D.Cal. Feb. 20, 2015).\
Spoliation is the intentional destruction, concealment, mutilation, or material alteration of evidence. Southeastern Mechanical Services, Inc. v. Brody, 657 F.Supp.2d 1293 , 1299 (M.D.Fla. 2009); Optowave Co. v. Nikitin, Case No. 6:05-cv-1083-Orl-22DAB, 2006 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 81345 , 2006 WL 3231422 , at *7 (M.D.Fla. Nov. 7, 2006). Spoliation is an evidentiary matter and therefore, in federal cases the issue is governed by federal law. Flury v. Daimler Chrysler Corp., 427 F.3d 939 , 944 (11th Cir. 2005), cert. denied, 548 U.S. 903 , 126 S. Ct. 2967 , 165 L. Ed. 2d 950 (2006). The inherent power of federal courts to manage their own affairs and Fed.R.Civ.P. 37 give courts the authority to impose sanctions for the spoliation of evidence. In re NTL, Inc. Securities Litigation, 244 F.R.D. 179 , 191 (S.D.N.Y. 2007).\
Before a court will impose sanctions for spoliation the moving party must establish that: (1) the party in control of the evidence had an obligation to preserve it at the time it was destroyed; (2) the evidence was destroyed with a "culpable state of mind" and (3) a reasonable trier of fact could find that the evidence that was destroyed would support a claim or defense in the case. Posely v. Eckerd Corp., 433 F.Supp.2d 1287 , 1315 (S.D.Fla. 2006). The Eleventh Circuit has not articulated specific guidelines for the imposition of sanctions for spoliation. Consequently, courts in this circuit "may look to state law principles for guidance so long as the principles are consistent with federal spoliation principles." Southeastern 657 F.Supp.2d at 1299 . Under Florida law, "spoliation is established when the party seeking sanctions proves (1) that the missing evidence existed at one time; (2) that the alleged spoliator had a duty to preserve the evidence; and (3) that the evidence was crucial to the movant being able to prove its prima facie case or defense." Floeter v. City of Orlando, Case No. 6:05-cv-400-Orl-22KRS, 2007 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 9527 , 2007 WL 486633 ([*4] M.D.Fla. 2007).\
The Court finds that relevant information concerning the claims in this lawsuit existed in Holt's personal Box account when the action was filed and served on Novatus.\
The next issue is whether Novatus had a duty to maintain and preserve Holt's personal Box account. "Once a party reasonably anticipates litigation, it is obligated to suspend its routine document retention/destruction policy and implement a 'litigation hold' to ensure the preservation of relevant documents." Goodman v. Praxair Services, Inc., 632 F.Supp.2d 494 , 511 (D.Md. 2009) (quoting Thompson v. U.S. Dept. of Housing & Urban Development, 219 F.R.D. 93 , 100 (D.Md. 2003)); U.S. ex rel. King v. DSE, Inc., 2013 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 22245 , 2013 WL 610531 , at * 7 (M.D.Fla. Jan.17, 2013)report and recommendation adopted, 8:08-cv-2416-T-23EAJ, 2013 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 22241 , 2013 WL 608541 (M.D.Fla. Feb. 19, 2014) (When party becomes aware of claims or defenses it has an obligation to conscientiously preserve all evidence that is relevant to those claims and defenses that is in existence when the duty to preserve attaches.). Parties must "act reasonably by taking 'positive action to preserve material evidence."' Victor Stanley, Inc. v. Creative Pipe, Inc., 269 F.R.D. 497 , 525 (D.Md. 2010) (quoting Jones v. Bremen High School Dist. 228, Case No. 08 C 3548 , 2010 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 51312 , 2010 WL 2106640 at *6 (N.D.Ill. 2010). Once it was served with Selectica's complaint, and at the absolute latest, when it received the litigation hold letter, Novatus was under a duty to preserve relevant information.\
A party can only preserve evidence that is within its possession, custody, or control. See, e.g., Posely, at 433 F.Supp.2d at 1315 . Possession, custody, and control are not the same thing. A party may be in control of information that it does not own or physically possess. Pictet Overseas, Inc. v. Helvetia Trust, Case No. 13-81088-CIV, 2014 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 147602 , 2014 WL 5034725 at * 8 (S.D.Fla. Sept. 8, 2014). "'Control' has been construed broadly by the courts as the legal right, authority or practical ability to obtain the materials sought upon demand." In re NASDAQ Market-Makers Antitrust Litigation, 169 F.R.D. 493 , 530 (S.D.N.Y. 1996). This Court agrees with those courts that have employed the practical ability test to determine whether a party has control, and therefore a duty to preserve information. Shcherbakovskiy v. Da Capo Al Fine, Ltd., 490 F.3d 130 , 138 (2nd Cir. 2007); Pictet, 2014 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 147602 , 2014 WL 5034725 , at * 8; DeSoto Health & Rehab., L.L.C. v. Philadelphia Indemnity Ins. Co., Case No. 2:09-cv-599-FtM-99SPC, 2010 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 127877 , 2010 WL 4853891 at * 3 (M.D.Fla. Nov. 22, 2010); Goodman 632 F.Supp.2d at 514 ; NTL, 244 F.R.D. at 196 ; Steele Software Systems Corp. v. Dataquick Info. Sys., Inc., 237 F.R.D. 561 , 564 (D.Md. 2006). Using this test, a party might control a non-party based upon their relationship. The attorney-client relationship and the corporate parent-subsidiary relationship are examples. A party may control a non-party if there is a contract empowering the party to obtain information from the non-party. Control may also exist if it is customary in the industry for the non-party to furnish the information to the party. On the other hand, if extraordinary, unethical, or illegal means are required, then there is no practical ability to obtain the information.\
The employer-[*5] employee relationship is one that may result in an employer party having the necessary control over information in the possession of a non-party employee. "Relationships which evidence a legal right of a party to obtain a document from non-party include ... an employer from current employees." Bleecker v. Standard Fire Ins. Co., 130 F.Supp.2d 726 , 739 (E.D.N.C. 2000). This is consistent with the holdings in cases discussing the control an employer may possess over former employees. See, e.g., Export-Import Bank of the U.S. v. Asia Pulp & Paper Co., Ltd., 233 F.R.D. 338 , 341-42 (S.D.N.Y. 2005) ("Analyzing the practical ability of corporations to obtain work-related documents from former employees, courts insist that corporations, at the very least, ask their former employees to cooperate before asserting that they have no control over documents in the former employees' possession."); In re Folding Carton Antitrust Litigation, 76 F.R.D. 420 , 423 (N.D.Ill. 1977) ("In the meantime, we assume that, if defendants contact their former employees who still receive compensation from them, they will secure the requested documents and can produce them to plaintiffs."). The Court is mindful of the decision in Nalco Chemical Co. v. Hydro Technologies, Inc., 148 F.R.D. 608 (E.D. Wis. 1993) holding that a corporation did not have the requisite control to compel its employees to provide exemplars of their fingerprints. The case is distinguishable because fingerprints are personal, anatomical features fundamentally different from the business files Holt possessed.\
When Novatus' obligation to preserve relevant information was triggered, Holt was its employee. Given the averments in the complaint, and Novatus' knowledge that Holt possessed Selectica's files, Novatus also knew Holt was a key figure in this dispute. ""[K]ey players' are the 'employees likely to have relevant information.'" Zubulake v. UBS Warburg LLC, 229 F.R.D. 422 , 433-34 (S.D.N.Y. 2004) (quoting Zubulake v, UBS Warburg LLC, 220 F.R.D. 212 , 218 (S.D.N.Y. 2003)). Holt was obviously a willing and cooperative employee inasmuch as he had already volunteered to share Selectica files with Novatus, and when Muniz told him to send files to her, he complied. Muniz' action also shows that Novatus was not concerned about Holt's obligations under the Proprietary Agreement. This leads the Court to conclude that Novatus had access to, and the ability to produce the files in Holt's Box account. The Court also finds that when the Selectica complaint was served on Novatus, the corporation was obligated to instruct Holt to maintain and preserve all of the Selectica files in his personal Box account.1 Goodman at 517.\
The next question is whether the information Holt destroyed is crucial to the case. This can be a difficult issue upon which to present direct evidence because it concerns information that no longer exists. Therefore, "courts must not hold the prejudiced party to too strict a standard of proof regarding the likely contents of the destroyed evidence because doing so allows the spoliators to profit from the destruction of the evidence." Southeastern[*6] , 657 F.Supp.2d at 1300 (citing Kronisch v. U.S., 150 F.3d 112 , 128 (2d Cir. 1998)); see also Pacific Coast Marine Windshields Ltd. v. Malibu Boats, LLC, Case No. 6:12-cv-22-Orl-28DAB, 2012 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 189376 , 2012 WL 10817204 , at *3 (M.D. Fla. Nov. 30, 2012). In Southeastern the court said "[t]he substantial and complete nature of the destruction of evidence by the spoliator justifies a finding that the destroyed evidence prejudiced a plaintiff." 657 F.Supp.2d at 1300 . Courts have also found that bad faith alone "gives rise to a strong inference that production of the document would have been unfavorable to the party responsible for destruction." Swofford v. Eslinger, 671 F. Supp. 2d 1274 , 1282 (M.D.Fla. 2009) (citations omitted).\
The files Holt deleted are not crucial to Selectica proving its case because they were all copies of documents that still exist. The files are still on the laptop Holt used when he worked for Selectica, and on Selectica's other systems, all of which are in Selectica's possession. And, there is no question about what Holt deleted because the parties have a list of the files.\
The more difficult question concerns the medadata associated with the files Holt deleted. In most cases, metadata is unlikely to have any evidentiary value to the parties. But in cases involving the alleged theft and misuse of electronically stored information, the parties may very well utilize metadata to establish their claims and defenses. That is certainly true in this case. At their initial case management conference the parties agreed that files would be produced in native format "with accompanying metadata in a Concordance delimited .DAT file and Summation\'97ready .TXT metadata file." (Doc. 14 at 4).\
It is possible that the metadata associated with Holt's Box account would have shown if any of the Selectica files he took were opened, which files were opened, when they were opened, and whether any of the files were transferred or downloaded.2 According to Selectica, this information "is a critical component to finding that Novatus' misappropriated Plaintiff's confidential information for Defendant's pecuniary gain, and unlawfully competed with Plaintiff for customers in the contract management market. Furthermore, without this evidence, Plaintiff is unable to know whether its trade secrets and proprietary information were copied elsewhere, modified, or stored on other devices. Plaintiff cannot be sure who else viewed or destroyed documents, particularly other Novatus employees, Plaintiff's customers, or prospective customers." (Doc. 61 at 16-17). The Court disagrees.\
Selectica is seeking damages and injunctive relief based upon Novatus' alleged acquisition and use of its confidential and proprietary information to solicit Selectica's employees to join Novatus, and to solicit Selectica's existing and prospective customers. Metadata is not necessary to show that Holt misappropriated Selectica's files, he has admitted that. Assuming the metadata would have shown that Selectica's files were viewed, copied, forwarded, or downloaded, there is no evidence that the metadata would [*7] have revealed the identity of the perpetrator(s) or what they did with the information. And, there is already evidence showing that Novatus had control of the files. The metadata also would not prove that Novatus illegally competed with Selectica for employees or customers. That evidence will come from Novatus' current and former employees who engaged in the solicitations, and the people they solicited. Assuming someone modified the Selectica files in Holt's Box account, the Court fails to see why that information is relevant or crucial. What Selectica might have used the metadata for would be to impeach Holt if he testifies that nobody accessed, copied, forwarded, or downloaded the files in his Box account. Selectica already has other evidence to impeach Holt's credibility and any additional ammunition the metadata might provide does not make it crucial to the case.\
This brings the Court to the question of Novatus' good or bad faith. The Court has no difficulty finding that Holt acted in bad faith when he destroyed the files in his Box account. However, there is no evidence that he acted on instructions from Novatus, or with its knowledge or approval. Novatus' culpability lies in the fact that it failed until after it was too late, to instruct Holt to preserve all of the relevant information he had. Selectica cites Golia v. Leslie Fay Co., Case No. 01 Civ 1111 (GEL), 2003 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 13794 , 2003 WL 21878788 (S.D.N.Y. Aug. 7, 2003) and NTL for the proposition that a party's failure to adequately instruct its employees to preserve evidence is sufficient to warrant the imposition of sanctions. While instructive, neither case is binding on this Court. In the Eleventh Circuit, sanctions may be imposed for the spoliation of evidence "when the absence of that evidence is predicated on bad faith.... 'Mere negligence' in losing or destroying the records is not enough for an adverse inference, as 'it does not sustain an inference of consciousness of a weak case."' Bashir v. Amtrak, 119 F.3d 929 , 931 (11th Cir.1997) (quoting Vick v. Texas Employment Comm'n, 514 F.2d 734 , 737 (5th Cir. 1975); Point Blank Solutions, Inc. v. Toyobo America, Inc., Case No. 09-61166-CIV, 2011 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 42239 , 2011 WL 1456029 (S.D.Fla. April 5, 2011). There is no evidence that Novatus acted willfully, purposefully, or otherwise in bad faith when it failed to place a litigation hold on the information in Holt's Box account. So, while Novatus' inaction may be characterized as negligence, or even gross negligence, it will not support the imposition of sanctions.\
For these reasons, Selectica's motion for sanctions based upon the spoliation of evidence by Novatus is DENIED.\
DONE and ORDERED in Orlando, Florida on March 12, 2015.\
/s/ Thomas B. Smith \
THOMAS B. SMITH \
United States Magistrate Judge\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0  \uc0\u8232 \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 1\
At least one court has gone further, finding that even if a party did not have the ability to preserve information because it lacked ownership or control, the party "still has an obligation to give the opposing party notice of access to the evidence or of the possible destruction of the evidence if the party anticipates litigation involving the evidence." Goodman 632 F.Supp.2d at 514 .\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 2\
This is only a possibility because there is no evidence before the Court to establish that this information existed or was retrievable. Still, Novatus has not denied that the information existed and could have been discovered.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb566\sa1133\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0          
\f0\fs42 General Information\

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 Judge(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Thomas B. Smith\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Related Docket(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 6:13-cv-01708 (M.D. Fla.);\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Topic(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Employment Law; Civil Procedure\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Date Filed\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 2015-03-12 00:00:00\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Parties\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 SELECTICA, INC., Plaintiff, v. NOVATUS, INC., Defendant.\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Court\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 United States District Court for the Middle District of Florida\cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\li674\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\fs20 \cf0 Pagination \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 *
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 BL
\f1\fs24 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\li674\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 United States District Court, M.D. Florida \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 JOE HOUSTON, Plaintiff, v. HESS CORPORATION, Defendant. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Case No. 2:13-cv-152-FtM-38DNF \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 March 18, 2014. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
ORDER \'a0 [fn1] 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn1] Disclaimer: Documents filed in CM/ECF may contain hyperlinks to other documents or Web sites. These hyperlinks are provided only for users' convenience. Users are cautioned that hyperlinked documents in CM/ECF are subject to PACER fees. By allowing hyperlinks to other Web sites, this court does not endorse, recommend, approve, or guarantee any third parties or the services or products they provide on their Web sites. Likewise, the court has no agreements with any of these third parties or their Web sites. The court accepts no responsibility for the availability or functionality of any hyperlink. Thus, the fact that a hyperlink ceases to work or directs the user to some other site does not affect the opinion of the court. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\
Sheri Polster Chappell, District Judge 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\
This matter comes before the Court on Plaintiff Joe Houston's Motion for Summary Judgment and a memorandum of law filed on November 7, 2013. (Doc.#36; Doc. #36-3). Defendant Hess Corporation filed a response in opposition on December 6, 2013. (Doc. #46). This matter is now ripe for review. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Background
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Houston is disabled and uses a wheelchair. (Doc. #36-1, \'b6\'b6 3-4). Hess Corporation maintains a place of public accommodation located in Clewiston, Florida. (Doc. #36-1, at \'b6 6; Doc. #36-2, at \'b6 2). Houston visited the Hess property prior to the filing of this lawsuit "to get something to eat and to check the location for ADA compliance." (Doc. #36-1, \'b6 6). During his visit, Houston experienced and observed conditions on the Hess property that denied him the opportunity to enjoy equal access to the full advantages, benefits, goods and services available at the property. (Doc. #36-1, \'b6 7). For example, Houston was unable to maneuver the facility in a continuous path of travel free from obstructions and observed that the restroom lacked proper grab bars. (Doc. #36-1, \'b6 7). Due to these barriers, Houston asserts he was treated differently than members of the non-disabled public. (Doc. #36-1, \'b6\'b6 7-8). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 On March 6, 2013, Plaintiff Houston filed his one count Amended Complaint alleging Defendant Hess Corporation discriminated against Houston in violation of the Title III of the Americans with Disabilities Act, 42 U.S.C. \'a7 12181 et seq. (hereinafter "ADA"). (Doc. #8). Specifically, Houston alleges Hess denied him access to full and equal enjoyment of the goods, services, facilities, privileges, advantages, or accommodations at the Hess establishment. (Doc. #8). In addition, Houston alleges Hess failed to ensure individuals with disabilities are not treated differently because of the absence of auxiliary aids and services. (Doc. #8). Houston specifically seeks injunctive relief, attorney's fees, litigation expenses, and costs. (Doc. #8). Houston has now moved for summary judgment stating there is no material dispute in this matter. (Doc. #36, Doc. #36-3). Hess has responded in opposition. (Doc. #46). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Standard
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Summary judgment is appropriate only when the Court is satisfied that "there is no genuine issue as to any material fact" and the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law. Fed.R.Civ. P. 56(c). An issue is genuine if there is sufficient evidence such that a reasonable jury could return a verdict for either party. Anderson v. Liberty Lobby, Inc., 477 U.S. 242, 248 (1986). Similarly, an issue is material if it may affect the outcome of the suit under governing law. Id. The moving party bears the burden of showing the absence of any genuine issue of material fact. Celotex Corp. v.Catrett, 477 U.S. 317, 323 (1986). In deciding whether the moving party has met this initial burden, the Court must review the record and all reasonable inferences drawn from the record in the light most favorable to the non-moving party. Whatley v. CNA Ins. Co., 189 F.3d 1310, 1313 (11th Cir.1999). Once the Court determines that the moving party has met its burden, the burden [*2] shifts and the non-moving party must present specific facts showing that there is a genuine issue for trial that precludes summary judgment. Matsushita Elec. Indus. Co. Ltd. v. Zenith Radio Corp., 475 U.S. 574, 587 (1986). "The evidence presented cannot consist of conclusory allegations, legal conclusions or evidence which would be inadmissible at trial." Demyan v. Sun Life Assurance Co. of Canada, 148 F.Supp.2d 1316, 1320 (S.D. Fla. 2001) (citing Avirgan v. Hull, 932 F.2d 1572, 1577 (11th Cir. 1991)). Failure to show sufficient evidence of any essential element is fatal to the claim and the Court should grant the summary judgment. Celotex, 477 U.S. at 322-23. Conversely, if reasonable minds could find a genuine issue of material fact then summary judgment should be denied. Miranda v. B & B Cash Grocery Store, Inc., 975 F.2d 1518, 1532 (11th Cir. 1992).
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Discussion
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Title III of the ADA provides: 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 No individual shall be discriminated against on the basis of disability in the full and equal enjoyment of the goods, services, facilities, privileges, advantages, or accommodations of any place of public accommodation by any person who owns, leases (or leases to), or operates a place of public accommodation. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 42 U.S.C. \'a7 12182(a).
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Public establishments must maintain certain accommodations pursuant to the ADA. Consequently, when a public establishment fails to comply with the ADA requirements this failure is defined as discrimination. National Alliancefor Accessibility, Inc. v. Walgreen Co., No. 3:10-CV-780-J-32-TEM,[2011 BL 308070], 2011 WL 5975809, at *1 (M.D. Fla. Nov. 28, 2011); Hoewischer v. Cedar BendClub, Inc., No. 3:11-cv-1040-J-37TEM, [2013 BL 67882], 2013 WL 1155783, at *1 (M.D. Fla. Mar.14, 2013) ("Discrimination includes the 'failure to remove architectural barriers [to access] . . . where such removal is readily achievable.'") (citing 42 U.S.C. \'a7 12182(b)(2)(A)(iv)). If a public establishment violates the ADA requirements, then a court may issue an injunction requiring a defendant "to alter facilities to make such facilities readily accessible to and usable by individuals with disabilities." National Alliance forAccessibility, [2011 BL 308070], 2011 WL 5975809 at *1 (citing 42 U.S.C. \'a7 12182(b)(2)(A)(iv)). A prevailing plaintiff is not entitled to damages but may recover reasonable attorney's fees. Id.
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 On a motion for summary judgment in an ADA case, a plaintiff bears the initial burden of production to demonstrate that an architectural barrier exists and that removal is readily accessible. Gathright-Dietrich v. AtlantaLandmarks, Inc., 452 F.3d 1269, 1273 (11th Cir. 2006). If a plaintiff is able to meet this burden, then a defendant has the opportunity to rebut by having the opportunity to prove that removal of the barriers could not be accomplished without difficultly or expense. Id. at 1275. A defendant could also moot the requested injunctive relief if the property becomes compliant with the ADA after the filing of the lawsuit. National Alliance forAccessability, Inc., [2011 BL 308070], 2011 WL 5975809, at *3 (nothing that "[f]ederal courts have dismissed ADA claims as moot when the alleged violations have been remedied after the initial filing of a suit seeking injunctive relief.") (quoting Norkunas v. Tar Heel Capital Wendy's LLC, No. 5:09-cv-00116,[2011 BL 187411], 2011 WL 2940722, at *3 (W.D. N.C. July 19, 2006)). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Houston asserts it is entitled to summary judgment because [*3] Hess maintains a place of public accommodation that has numerous barriers to individuals with disabilities in violation of the ADA. On September 9, 2013, Peter Lowell performed an ADA compliance inspection of the Hess property. (Doc.#36-2, at \'b6 2). Lowell found there were barriers on the Hess property but that these barriers could be remedied. (Doc. #36-2, at \'b6 3). Pursuant to his inspection, Lowell recommended that several changes be made to the Hess property in order for the facility to become compliant with the Code ofFederal Regulations 28 (CFR) Part 36 ADA Standards for Accessible Design (hereinafter "ADAAG"). (Doc. #36-2, at 5-14). Lowell specifically recommended that Hess should remove a ramp in the parking lot and then fill where it was, repave the handicap parking spaces, replace the sidewalks in front of the store with a new walkway, wrap the pipes in the bathroom facility, replace the faucet knobs to the bathroom sink, lower the paper towel dispenser, change the toilet tank in the restroom so that the handles are placed on the side not closest to the wall, relocate the grab bar in the restroom, and relocate stock and equipment items that obstruct floor space in front of merchandise. (Doc. #36-2, at 5-14). Lowell included his estimates on the costs of the alterations as well. (Doc. #36-2, at 5-14). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Hess, however, contends that as of November 15, 2013, all of the complained of violations have been remedied and therefore, Houston no longer has standing to bring this action. (Doc. #46). Hess relies on a report conducted by David Goldfarb. (Doc. #45-2 (alleging that the barriers in the Complaint have been corrected and now comply with the ADA, ADAAG, and FACBC)). Houston, however, contests that the Hess property still violates the ADA. (Doc. #55; Doc. #55-1). Plaintiff's inspector, Lowell, examined the Hess property again on February 9, 2014, but found the property still did not comply with the ADA standards. (Doc.#55-1). Lowell believes the November 15, 2013, inspection by Hess overlooked violations of the ADA or alternatively Hess has been unable to maintain the property in a state of compliance after this inspection. (Doc. #55). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The Parties directly contest whether the Hess property now complies with the required ADA standards. The Parties' independent inspections resulted in conflicting conclusions. There is evidence that the issues have been rectified and evidence that the issues remain. Accordingly, the Court finds there is a material dispute as to whether the Hess property currently violates the ADA. Whether the Hess property currently violates the ADA is important because if the property does not then Houston may no longer have standing to move forward with this lawsuit. Access for the Disabled, Inc. v.Pohlman, No. 2:06-cv-178-FtM-99SPC, [2007 BL 222048], 2007 WL 419640, at 2 (M.D. Fla. Feb. 2,2007) (discussing that a party seeking injunctive relief must prove a real and immediate threat of future injury); National Alliance for Accessability,Inc. v. McDonald's Corp., No. 8:12-CV-1365-T-17TBM, 2013 WL 6408650, at *8(M.D. Fla. Dec. 6, 2013) (discussing that the plaintiff's request for an injunction would be moot if the defendant'[*4] s property was sincerely in compliance with the ADA standards after the complaint was filed, however, plaintiff did have standing to sue at the time the complaint was filed.). Consequently, Houston is not entitled to summary judgment. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Accordingly, it is now 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 ORDERED:
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Plaintiff's Motion for Summary Judgment (Doc. #36) is DENIED. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 DONE and ORDERED. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb566\sa1133\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0          
\f0\fs42 General Information\

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 Judge(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Sheri Polster Chappell\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Related Docket(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 2:13-cv-00152 (M.D. Fla.);\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Topic(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Civil Procedure; Civil Rights\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Date Filed\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 2014-03-18 00:00:00\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Parties\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 JOE HOUSTON, Plaintiff, v. HESS CORPORATION, Defendant.\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Case Type\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 SO\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Court\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 United States District Court for the Middle District of Florida\cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\li674\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\fs20 \cf0 Pagination \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 *
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 BL
\f1\fs24 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\li674\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 United States District Court, M.D. Florida \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 LILIANA ALMEIRA et al., Plaintiffs, vs. GB HOUSE, LLC et aL., Defendants. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Case No. 8:14-cv-00045-T-27AEP \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 April 7, 2014. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
ORDER 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\
James D. Whittemore, District Judge 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\
BEFORE THE COURT is Plaintiffs' Motion for Entry of Final Judgment, and for Attorneys' Fees and Costs Against Southeast Auto Rental and Leasing Corp. (Dkt. 25). Upon consideration, the motion (Dkt. 25) is DENIED without prejudice.
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The Clerk previously entered a default against Southeast Auto Rental and Leasing (Dkt. 24). Upon entry of a default, the defendant admits the plaintiffs well-pleaded allegations of fact. Nishimatsu Constr. Co. v.Houston Nat'I Bank, 515 F.2d 1200, 1206 (5th Cir. 1975).[fn1] The default, however, does not in itself warrant a default judgment. Id. "[T]he well-pleaded allegations in the complaint [must] actually state a substantive cause of action" and there must be "a substantive, sufficient basis in the pleadings for the particular relief sought." Tyco Fire & Sec,LLC v. Alcocer, 218 Fed. Appx. 860, 863 (11th Cir. 2007). A "default judgment cannot stand on a complaint that fails to state a claim." Chudasamav. Mazda Motor Corp., 123 F.3d 1353, 1370 n.41 (11th Cir. 1997). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 "Even when a default judgment is warranted based on a party's failure to defend, the allegations in the complaint with respect to the amount of damages are not deemed true. The district court must instead conduct an inquiry in order to ascertain the amount of damages with reasonable certainty." In re Catt, 368 F.3d 789, 793 (7th Cir. 2004) (citing CreditLyonnais Sec. (USA), Inc. v. Alcantara, 183 F.3d 151, 155 (2d Cir. 1999)). Under Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 55(b), an evidentiary hearing may be held to determine appropriate damages, but it is not required, particularly where all of the required evidence is of record. See Tar a Prods., Inc. v.  Hollywood Gadgets, Inc. , 449 Fed. Appx. 908,911-12 (11th Cir. 2011) (citing SEC v. Smyth, 420 F.3d 1225, 1230 n.13 (11th Cir. 2005)). Still, default judgment may not be entered without a hearing on damages unless "the amount claimed is liquidated or capable of ascertainment from definite figures contained in the documentary evidence or in detailed affidavits." DundeeCement Co. v. Howard Pipe & Concrete Prods., Inc., 722 F.2d 1319, 1323 (7th Cir. 1983). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Conclusory affidavits are insufficient to establish the amount of damages upon default judgment. See Stevens v. ACR Sales & Serv., Inc., [2008 BL 123468], 2008 WL 2275529, at *1 (M.D. Fla. May 31, 2008) (denying motion for default judgment where plaintiff submitted conclusory affidavit as to damages);Natures Way Marine, LLC v. N. Am. Materials, Inc. \'a0, No. 08-0005-WS-B, [2008 BL 58895], 2008 WL 801702, at *4 (S.D. Ala. Mar. 24,2008) ("It is incumbent on plaintiff, as the party seeking default judgment, to make a detailed evidentiary showing of damages, beyond mere conclusory statements. . . . Plaintiffs damages should be readily provable by reference to objective documentation. . . . What the Court requires . . . is sworn, authenticated evidence. . . . Conclusory evidence whose calculations and factual underpinnings cannot be discerned are insufficient and will not be accepted."). 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Plaintiff Liliana Almeira argues that she is entitled to damages of $12,255.04, and Plaintiff Arnaldo Gonzalez argues that he is entitled to damages of $12,228.[*2] 00. The Complaint and accompanying affidavits, however, do not provide a sufficient basis on which damages may be awarded, for several reasons. First, neither the Complaint nor the affidavits specify by whom Plaintiffs were employed and for whom they were working when their FLS A claims arose. Plaintiffs sued five separate corporate entities, but the Complaint contains no allegations detailing the relationship between the entities. Nevertheless, Plaintiffs aver that they are owed their full measure of damages from the one Defendant to have a default entered against it. Likewise, Plaintiffs argue that they are each entitled to $5,000 for a violation of 26 U.S.C. \'a7 7434,[fn2] but neither the Complaint nor the affidavits specify which Defendant filed the fraudulent information return with the IRS. Indeed, the Complaint contains only one conclusory sentence concerning the \'a7 7434 claim (see Dkt. \'b6 30). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Additionally, Plaintiffs9 affidavits are conclusory. Each affidavit is one page long, consisting of conclusory statements concerning the allegations in the Complaint (see Dkt. 25-1 at 2, 4). Moreover, the affidavits set forth mere estimates of the overtime worked, and it is unclear how Plaintiffs arrived at those estimates.[fn3] The affidavits also fail to discern which Defendant is responsible for the alleged violations. Finally, neither affidavit is signed, and Plaintiffs have therefore failed to present sworn testimony of damages.[fn4]
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Accordingly, Plaintiffs' Motion for Entry of Final Judgment, and For Attorneys' Fees and Costs Against Southeast Auto Rental and Leasing Corp. (Dkt. 25) is DENIED without prejudice.. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn1] in Bonner v. City of Prichard, 661 F.2d 1206, 1209 (11th Cir. 1981) (en banc), the Eleventh Circuit adopted as binding precedent all decisions of the former Fifth Circuit handed down prior to October 1, 1981. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn2] Section 7434 creates a private cause of action allowing a person to bring a civil action for damages against a company who willfully files a fraudulent information tax return with the IRS with respect to payments purported to be made to the person. \'a7 7434(a). Plaintiffs who prevail under \'a7 7434(a) are entitled to damages in an amount equal to the greater of $5,000 or the sum of (1) actual damages, (2) costs of the action, and (3) reasonable attorneys' fees. \'a7 7434(b). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn3] See, e.g., Dkt. 25-1 at 2 \'b6 5 ("I worked, on average, 48 hours per week, for 52 weeks, estimated.") (emphasis added). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn4] Plaintiffs' counsel assures the Court in a footnote (Dkt. 25 at 2 n.2) that Plaintiffs have reviewed and approved the affidavits, and that signature pages will be promptly filed. The motion was filed over one week ago, raising concerns as to whether Plaintiffs have actually reviewed the affidavits drafted on their behalf. In any event, the affidavits are not sworn and may not be considered. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb566\sa1133\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0          
\f0\fs42 General Information\

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 Judge(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 JAMES D. WHITTEMORE\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Related Docket(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 8:14-cv-00045 (M.D. Fla.);\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Topic(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Civil Procedure\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Date Filed\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 2014-04-07 00:00:00\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Parties\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 LILIANA ALMEIRA et al., Plaintiffs, vs. GB HOUSE, LLC et aL., Defendants.\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Case Type\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 SO\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Court\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 United States District Court for the Middle District of Florida\cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\li674\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\fs20 \cf0 Pagination \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 *
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 BL
\f1\fs24 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\li674\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 United States District Court, N.D. Florida \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 In Re WORLD WIDE MEDICAL TECH. LLC., et al., patent litigation consolidated cases, WORLD WIDE MEDICAL TECH. LLC., et al., Plaintiffs, vs. ONCURA INC., Defendants. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 CASE NO. 4:11-cv-614/RS-CAS, CASE NO. 4:12cv170/RS-CAS \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 April 13, 2012. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
ORDER 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\
Richard Smoak, District Judge 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\
Before me are Defendant Oncura, Inc.'s ("Oncura") Motion to Sever and Transfer Venue (Doc. 63) and Plaintiff's Response in Opposition (Doc. 68). I previously severed the eight defendants in this patent infringement case pursuant to 35 U.S.C.A \'a7 299(b). For pretrial matters, the cases have been consolidated. (See Doc. 69). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Plaintiffs are three Connecticut corporations with their principal place of business also in Connecticut. (Doc. 39, \'b6\'b6 3-5). Defendant Oncura is a Delaware corporation with its principal place of business in Illinois.  Id. at \'b6 10. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 I. Legal Standard
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Title 28 U.S.C. \'a7 1404(a) provides that "for the convenience of the parties and witnesses, and the interest of justice, a district court may transfer any civil action to any other district or division where it might have been brought ...." The standard for transfer under \'a7 1404(a) gives broad discretion to the trial court, and a trial court's decision will be overturned only for abuse of discretion. Mason v. SmithKline BeechamClinical Labs., 146 F. Supp. 2d 1355, 1358 (S.D. Fla. 2001) (citing Brown v.Ct. Gen. Life Ins. Co., 934 F.2d 1193, 1197 (11th Cir. 1991)). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The question of whether to transfer venue involves a two-pronged inquiry. Mason, 146 F. Supp. 2d at 1359. The first prong holds that the alternative venue "must be one in which the action could have originally been brought by the plaintiff." Id . The second prong requires Courts to "balance private and public factors" to determine whether or not transfer is justified. Id . "Defendants moving for transfer have a heightened burden as they must prove with particularity the inconvenience caused by the plaintiff's choice of forum." Mason, 146 F. Supp. At 1359 (citation omitted). Consequently, transfer will only be granted where the balance of convenience of the parties "strongly favors" the defendant. Id . (citing Robinson v. Giarmarco& Bill. P.C., 74 F.3d 253, 260 (11th Cir. 1996)). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 II. Analysis
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Title 28 U.S.C. \'a7 1338(a) grants district courts original jurisdiction "of any civil action arising under any Act of Congress relating to patents." In such actions, venue is proper "in the judicial district where the defendant resides, or where the defendant has committed acts of infringement and has a regular and established place of business." 28 U.S.C. \'a7 1400(b). Oncura's principal place of business is in Arlington Heights, Illinois. Thus, Plaintiff could have filed the instant civil action in the Northern District of Illinois, and therefore transfer is permissible\'97provided that transfer is justified as evinced by an analysis of public and private factors. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 In Manuel v. Convergys Corp., 430 F.3d 1132 (11th Cir. 2005), the Eleventh Circuit listed a number of public and private factors relevant to determine whether or not transfer is justified under \'a7 1404(a). These factors include:(1) the convenience of the witnesses; (2) the location of relevant documents and the relative ease of access to sources of proof; (3) the convenience of the parties; (4) the locus of operative facts; ([*2] 5) the availability of process to compel the attendance of unwilling witnesses; (6) the relative means of the parties; (7) a forum's familiarity with the governing law; (8) the weight accorded a plaintiff's choice of forum; and (9) trial efficiency and the interests of justice, based on the totality of the circumstances.  Id. at 1135 n. 1. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 A. Convenience of the Witnesses
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Oncura has only one employee in Florida, a marketing person in the Middle District (Doc. 63, Attach. 1, \'b6 8). There are approximately 200 Oncura employees in Illinois, of which approximately 100 work on the product in dispute.  Id. at \'b6 4. Those witnesses employed by Oncura are those most likely to have relevant information about the development and production of the patented product.  Id. at \'b6 6-7. This factor weighs heavily towards transferring this case. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 B. Location of Documents
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 In patent infringement cases "the bulk of relevant evidence usually comes from the accused infringer." In re Genentech, Inc., 566 F. 3d 1338, 1345(Fed. Cir. 2009). "Consequently, the place where defendant's documents are kept weighs in favor of transfer to that location." Id . Oncura represents that the majority of its relevant documents are located in Illinois. Plaintiffs state that many of its relevant documents are located in the Northern District of Florida. Because of the ease by which documents can be scanned and made available through electronic discovery, this factor is slightly in favor of transfer. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 C. Convenience of the parties
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 It is undisputed that Illinois will be most convenient for the Defendant. Plaintiffs do not reside in Florida. Plaintiffs' only connection to Florida is that the allegedly infringing product was sold in Florida. Panama City Florida is certainly more remote than Chicago and in my experience it is more costly and time consuming to travel here. There are no direct flights between Panama City and Chicago or the Northeast. This factor weighs in favor of transfer. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 D. Locus of the Operative Facts
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 In patent cases, the preferred forum is the defendant's place of business because that usually constitutes the "center of gravity of the alleged patent infringement." Suomen Colorize Oy v. DISH Network, LLC, 801 F. Supp. 2d 1334, 1338 (M.D. Fla. 2011). With only one employee in Florida, it is difficult to see how the operative facts in this case can be located here. While the infringing product may have been sold within this district, the research, design, and manufacture occurred elsewhere. This factor weighs in favor of transfer. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 E. Compulsory Process
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Plaintiff has not identified any non-party witnesses in the Northern District of Florida or within 100 miles of this courthouse. Defendant, on the other hand, has identified several witnesses which would be subject to compulsory process within the Northern District of Illinois. This factor weighs in favor of transfer. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 F. Plaintiff's Choice of Forum
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 "The plaintiff's choice of forum should not be disturbed unless it is clearly outweighed by other considerations.'" Robinson v. Giarmarco & Bill,P.C., 74 F.3d 253, 260 (11th Cir. 1996) (quoting Howell v. Tanner, 650 F.2d 610, 616 (5th Cir. Unit B 1981)). This factor obviously weighs greatly to plaintiff. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 G. Other factors which [*3] I consider neutral.
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Because there is no indication that Florida would be a less costly forum for either party, the relative means of the parties is a neutral factor. Similarly, a transfer at this early stage of the case to another Federal District Court has little bearing on the efficiency of the judicial process or the competency of the other forum. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Considering the totality of the factors, I find that Defendant Oncura has met its burden to establish that the Northern District of Illinois is the most appropriate forum for this litigation. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 IT IS ORDERED:
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 1. Defendant Oncura, Inc.'s Motion to Sever and Transfer Venue (Doc. 63) is GRANTED. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 2. The Clerk is directed to transfer case 4:12cv170/RS-CAS to the Northern District of Illinois. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 ORDERED
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb566\sa1133\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0          
\f0\fs42 General Information\

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 Judge(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 John Richard Smoak Jr\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Related Docket(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 4:11-cv-00614 (N.D. Fla.); 4:12-cv-00170 (N.D. Fla.);\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Topic(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Civil Procedure; Patent Law\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Date Filed\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 2012-04-13 00:00:00\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Parties\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 In Re WORLD WIDE MEDICAL TECH. LLC., et al., patent litigation consolidated cases, WORLD WIDE MEDICAL TECH. LLC., et al., Plaintiffs, vs. ONCURA INC., Defendants.\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Case Type\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 SO\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Court\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 United States District Court for the Northern District of Florida\cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\li674\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\fs20 \cf0 Pagination \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 *
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 BL
\f1\fs24 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\li674\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Majority Opinion > 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE MIDDLE DISTRICT OF FLORIDA, ORLANDO DIVISION\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0  \uc0\u8232 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 PACIFIC COAST MARINE WINDSHIELDS LIMITED, a foreign corporation, Plaintiff, -vs- MALIBU BOATS, LLC, a California limited liability company, MARINE HARDWARE, INC., TRESSMARK, INC., MH WINDOWS, LLC, JOHN F. PUGH, OWNER, PRESIDENT & CEO DARREN BACH, Defendants. 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0  \uc0\u8232 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Case No. 6:12-cv-33-Orl-28DAB \
November 30, 2012, Filed November 30, 2012, Decided \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 For Pacific Coast Marine Windshields Limited, a foreign corporation, Plaintiff: Ava K. Doppelt, LEAD ATTORNEY, Ryan Thomas Santurri, Allen, Dyer, Doppelt, Milbrath & Gilchrist, PA, Orlando, FL; Nathan T. Paine, Robert E. Rohde, PRO HAC VICE, Rohde & Van Kampen, PLLC, Seattle, WA.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 For Malibu Boats, LLC, a California limited liability company, Defendant: Darin W. Snyder, LEAD ATTORNEY, PRO HAC VICE, O'Melveny & Myers, LLP, San Francisco, CA; Guy Stephen Haggard, Jeffrey D. Keiner, LEAD ATTORNEYS, Daniel E. Traver, GrayRobinson, PA, Orlando, FL; Steven Basileo, LEAD ATTORNEY, PRO HAC VICE, Brian M. Berliner, PRO HAC VICE, Yixin Zhang, O'Melveny & Myers, LLP, Los Angeles, CA.\
For Marine Hardware, Inc., a Washington corporation, Defendant: Dario A. Machleidt, Mark P. Walters, LEAD ATTORNEYS, PRO HAC VICE, Frommer, Lawrence & Haug, LLP, Seattle, WA; Martin J. Keane, Jr., W. Barry Blum, LEAD ATTORNEYS, Genovese, Joblove & Battista, PA, Miami, FL.\
For Tressmark, Inc., doing business as Liquid Sports Marine, Defendant: Brian M. Berliner, LEAD ATTORNEY, Steven Basileo, LEAD ATTORNEY, PRO HAC VICE, Yixin Zhang, O'Melveny & Myers, LLP, Los Angeles, CA; Darin W. Snyder, LEAD ATTORNEY, PRO HAC VICE, O'Melveny & Myers, LLP, San Francisco, CA; Guy Stephen Haggard, Jeffrey D. Keiner, LEAD ATTORNEYS, Daniel E. Traver, GrayRobinson, PA, Orlando, FL; Martin J. Keane, Jr., LEAD ATTORNEY, Genovese, Joblove & Battista, PA, Miami, FL.\
For MH Windows, LLC, a Washington limited liability company, John F. Pugh, an individual, Defendants: Martin J. Keane, Jr., W. Barry Blum, LEAD ATTORNEYS, Genovese, Joblove & Battista, PA, Miami, FL; Dario A. Machleidt, Mark P. Walters, PRO HAC VICE, Frommer, Lawrence & Haug, LLP, Seattle, WA.\
For Owner, President&CEO Darren Bach, Defendant, Counter Defendant: W. Barry Blum, LEAD ATTORNEY, Genovese, Joblove & Battista, PA, Miami, FL.\
For Tressmark, Inc., Malibu Boats, LLC, a California limited liability company, Counter Claimants, Counter Defendants: Brian M. Berliner, LEAD ATTORNEY, Steven Basileo, LEAD ATTORNEY, PRO HAC VICE, Yixin Zhang, O'Melveny & Myers, LLP, Los Angeles, CA; Darin W. Snyder, LEAD ATTORNEY, PRO HAC VICE, O'Melveny & Myers, LLP, San Francisco, CA; Guy Stephen Haggard, Jeffrey D. Keiner, LEAD ATTORNEYS, Daniel E. Traver, GrayRobinson, PA, Orlando, FL.\
For Pacific Coast Marine Windshields Limited, a foreign corporation, Counter Defendant: Ava K. Doppelt, LEAD ATTORNEY, Allen, Dyer, Doppelt, Milbrath & Gilchrist, PA, Orlando, FL; Robert E. Rohde, LEAD ATTORNEY, PRO HAC VICE, Nathan T. Paine, PRO HAC VICE, Rohde & Van Kampen, PLLC, Seattle, WA.\
For Pacific Coast Marine Windshields Limited, a foreign corporation, Counter Defendant, Counter Claimant: Ava K. Doppelt, LEAD ATTORNEY, Allen, Dyer, Doppelt, Milbrath & Gilchrist, PA, Orlando, FL; Nathan T. Paine, Robert E. Rohde, PRO HAC VICE, Rohde & Van Kampen, PLLC, Seattle, WA.
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 DAVID A. BAKER[*2] , UNITED STATES MAGISTRATE JUDGE.
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 DAVID A. BAKER \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Order
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 This cause came on for consideration without oral argument on the following motion filed herein:\
\pard\pardeftab720\li539\ri539\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 MOTION: PLAINTIFF'S MOTION FOR SANCTIONS FOR MALIBU'S DESTRUCTION OF EVIDENCE IN VIOLATION OF COURT'S ORDER (Doc. 273) \
FILED: September 18, 2012 \
THEREON it is ORDERED that the motion is GRANTED in part and DENIED in part.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Plaintiff Pacific Coast Marine Windshields Limited ("PCMW"), brought consolidated actions against defendants Malibu Boats, LLC ("Malibu") and Tressmark, Inc. ("Tressmark"), Marine Hardware, Inc. ("Marine Hardware"), MH Windows, LLC, and their owner John F. Pugh alleging infringement of U.S. Patent Nos. D555 , 070 ("the '070 Patent "); 7,418,917 ("the '917 Patent "); and 7,441,510 ("the '510 Patent "); infringement of copyrights; and misappropriation of trade secrets. Defendants denied each of PCMW's claims, with Malibu asserting counterclaims against PCMW and Darren Bach for conversion of its ownership interest in the '070 patent , breach of warranty, and unfair competition 1.\
PCMW now seeks sanctions, including striking Malibu's Answer and Counterclaims, and barring the offending individual from testifying at trial, arising out of production of altered hard-drives that contained relevant files with incorrect creation dates in 2002. Following receipt of relevant files with incorrect creation dates as belatedly produced by Malibu from one of its independent contractors who provided computer-aided design ("CAD") services \'97 Neil Gilbert, PCMW filed a motion to compel production of Gilbert's hard drives. This date discrepancy \'97 2002 creation date on a file admittedly not created before 2005 (if then) \'97 in the produced CAD files led PCMW yo file a motion to compel inspection of Gilbert's computer, which the Court granted on June 7, 2012. Doc. 175. The Court's order required Malibu to produce Gilbert's computer and related documents by June 17, 2012 or Gilbert would not be allowed to testify at trial. Doc. 175. The Order was appealed by Malibu; District Judge Antoon affirmed the ruling for Malibu to turn over Gilbert's hard drives.\
PCMW, having now received and reviewed the Gilbert computer, from which files were undisputedly deleted the day before the court-ordered production of Gilbert's hard drives, moves for sanctions, including the prohibiting Gilbert from testifying at trial, striking Malibu's Answer and Counterclaims, and monetary sanctions. Doc. 273. Malibu does not dispute that Gilbert used the CCleaner application on the computer prior to the inspection; however Malibu contends that it did not condone the conduct, had no advance knowledge of it, would have prevented such conduct if it had known, and argues that it is unfair to sanction Malibu for the independent actions of Gilbert when his actions disregarded the plain instructions conveyed to Gilbert's counsel for Gilbert to deliver the computer in an "unaltered" state. Doc. 294.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 I. General Background Facts2 
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 PCMW manufactures windshields for recreational boats; Darren Bach is PCMW's owner and chief executive officer. PCMW and Bach have been in the business of [*3] designing and manufacturing boat windshields since 1989. In 2005, a new ornamental design was developed for a ski boat windshield, which incorporated several innovations in the windshield frame. The U.S. Patent Trademark Office issued the '070 Patent and the '510 Patent to Bach, as the sole inventor, and the patents were subsequently assigned to PCMW. PCMW began production of the windshield in the spring of 2006 and began supplying two hundred windshields per month to Malibu.\
Malibu contends via counterclaims that its designer, Dan Gasper, is a co-inventor of the asserted windshield design and utility patents based on an automotive-style, corner-post marine windshield that Gasper conceived for use on boats in 2004 while viewing the Shelby Cobra Concept Car at a 2004 car show. Gasper subsequently mentioned the design to Darren Bach, in late September 2005, during a brainstorming session during a car ride. Malibu contends that it developed certain CAD drawings illustrating the design it wished PCMW to build in October 2005, when Gasper, with the assistance of Neil Gilbert, a contract computer aided design ("CAD") software operator, at Gasper's direction, began designing a marine windshield. They allegedly refined their design by adding side wings, refining the glass shape, and adding vent holes to the corner posts. Malibu contends that Gasper and Bach discussed patenting the windshield design, however, when the '070 patent application was filed three months later, Bach was listed as the sole inventor and Gasper was not listed on the '070 patent .\
During late 2006 and early 2007 Malibu began obtaining marine windshields from Marine Hardware. In 2007, Bach learned of Malibu's plan to put the Marine Hardware windshields on its boats; Bach contacted Malibu, notifying the company of the '070 Patent and Malibu's need to obtain a license. Malibu began including Marine Hardware's windshields as part of its boats in 2008 without PCMW's permission. This litigation subsequently ensued.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 II. Facts related to the Gilbert Hard Drive Dispute
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 At the heart of the instant dispute over the '070 and '510 patents are metadata and the contents of CAD files 3 from Neil Gilbert's computer. Malibu contends that the November 18, 2005 email from Gasper to Bach containing renderings of the boat design establish a date by which certain CAD files were completed because, Malibu argues, these files had to be completed before they could be emailed to someone else. On March 22, 2012, Malibu produced two CAD files with similar corner posts and boat windshield images that it had belatedly received from Neil Gilbert; the files were named "cornerholes.prt" and "windowtowercomp-c-holes.prt" and showed creation dates of November 2002. Doc. 166-1. Gilbert testified at his deposition two months later on May 15, 2012 4 that he had emailed the second CAD file to Gasper in November 2005, but the email was lost when his computer crashed in 2006. Doc. 275-2, Gilbert Dep. at 139. Gilbert explained that he did not produce the CAD files initially, and waited until March 2012, because [*4] Gasper did not ask for the design files, only for emails. Doc. 275-2, Gilbert Dep. at 142-43.\
It is undisputed that the dates in the metadata of the CAD files were wrong, reflecting a creation date of November 2002, though Gilbert's testimony is that they are from 2005. At his deposition, Gilbert was questioned extensively about the origin of the CAD files. Gilbert explained that all of his emails disappeared from the relevant time period (which would be relevant to Malibu's claim of co-inventorship) because he had a catastrophic computer failure. Doc. 275-2, Gilbert Dep. at 139. Malibu has produced emails allegedly sent by Gilbert to Gasper from the relevant time period in 2005.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 III. Standard for Awarding Sanctions for Violation of a Court's Discovery Order
\f2\fs16 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Pursuant to Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 37(b) , permissible sanctions are: (I) directing that the matters embraced in the order or other designated facts be taken as established for purposes of the action, as the prevailing party claims; (ii) prohibiting the disobedient party from supporting or opposing designated claims or defenses, or from introducing designated matters in evidence; (iii) striking pleadings in whole or in part; (iv) staying further proceedings until the order is obeyed; (v) dismissing the action or proceeding in whole or in part; (vi) rendering a default judgment against the disobedient party; or (vii) treating as contempt of court the failure to obey any order except an order to submit to a physical or mental examination. Fed. R. Civ. P. 37(b)(2)(A) . District courts have "broad discretion" in determining the appropriate sanction for the violation of discovery orders. Flury v. Daimler Chrysler Corp., 427 F.3d 939 , 944 (11th Cir. 2005).\
As Judge Jenkins of this District has observed in weighing the factors addressing spoliation sanctions:\
\pard\pardeftab720\li539\ri539\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 In spoliation cases, courts must not hold the prejudiced party to too strict a standard of proof regarding the likely contents of the destroyed evidence because doing so allows the spoliators to profit from the destruction of evidence. Kronisch v. United States, 150 F.3d 112 , 128 (2d Cir.1998). However, it should not be inferred that missing evidence was unfavorable unless the circumstances surrounding the evidence's absence indicate bad faith. Bashir, 119 F.3d at 931 (court "will not infer that the missing speed tape contained evidence unfavorable to appellees unless circumstances surrounding the tape's absence indicate bad faith, e.g., that appellees tampered with the evidence"); see also Residential Funding Corp. v. DeGeorge Fin. Corp., 306 F.3d 99 , 109 (2d Cir.2002) (bad faith alone is sufficient circumstantial evidence from which a fact finder can conclude that missing evidence was unfavorable to the spoliator). The substantial and complete nature of the destruction of evidence by the spoliator justifies a finding that the destroyed evidence prejudiced a plaintiff. E*Trade Sec., LLC v. Deutsche Bank AG, 230 F.R.D. 582 , 592 (D.Minn.2005); see also In re Krause, 367 B.R. 740 , 749 (Bankr.D.Kan.2007) (spoliation found where debtor used security program to permanently wipe or purge files on hard drive after court ordered him to turn over computer).\
Southeastern Mechanical Servs., Inc. v. Brody, 657 F.Supp.2d 1293 , 1300 (M.D. Fla. 2009). [*5] The concern about the missing evidence comes into play, however, only when a party's misconduct prevents its adversary from learning the contents, and hence the relevance, of the spoliated evidence.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 The spoliation doctrine is concerned not only with rectifying prejudice, but with deterring similar misconduct in the future. Collazo-Santiago, 149 F.3d at 29 . Where the misconduct violates a court's order granting a motion to compel under Rule 37(a), it is punishable under Rule 37(b)(2)(A), which also does not treat prejudice to the adverse party as essential to the imposition of sanctions. See, e.g., Rockwood v. SKF USA Inc., No. 08-cv-168, 2010 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 108792 , 2010 WL 3860414 (D.N.H. Sept. 30, 2012) (citing Malloy v. WM Specialty Mortg. LLC, 512 F.3d 23 , 27 (1st Cir. 2008)). Rule 37(b)(2)(A) authorizes the court to "issue further just orders" if a party violates an order to permit or provide discovery, including a number of specified sanctions. Though drawing an adverse inference against the offending party is not among them, the list is non-exhaustive, see, e.g., Novak v. Wolpoff & Abramson LLP, 536 F.3d 175 , 177 (2d Cir.2008), and appellate courts have upheld drawing an adverse inference against a party for disobeying a discovery order. See, e.g., United States v. Palmer, 956 F.2d 3 , 4 (1st Cir. 1992).\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 IV. ANALYSIS \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 PCMW argues that the "windowtowercomp-c-holes.prt" CAD file and other electronically stored information on Gilbert's hard drives is critical to Malibu's inventorship challenge to the '070 and '510 patents as well as Malibu's defense of the claims for copyright infringement and trade secrets misappropriation. PCMW argues that, since the production of the Gilbert files, Defendants have relied heavily upon the named "windowtowercomp-c-holes.prt" CAD file and emails exchanged between Gilbert and Gasper (in October and November 2005) to establish Malibu's inventorship claim. Doc. 273 at 11 (citing Doc. 205 at 9 (relying on image of Gilbert file to oppose PCMW's motion for summary judgment on inventorship) & Doc. 211 at 10-11 (relying on image of Gilbert file to in defendants' motion for summary judgment on inventorship). PCMW argues that the emails at issue attached images of boats with windshields, which were allegedly created by Gilbert; however, Gasper had previously testified at his deposition that the CAD file from which the images were created could not be located by Gilbert in responding to PCMW's discovery. PCMW also contends that the CAD file from which the images were created is important in that it reveals details and information that are not otherwise evident from the JPEG files attached to the emails, explaining that the JPEG files are merely pictures of the windshield design, whereas a CAD file contains details such as critical tolerances and extrusion profiles necessary for the actual manufacture of the windshield. Doc. 273 at 16 & n. 9. Gilbert's computer hard drives and the CAD files stored on them are of particularly high evidentiary value in this case, PCMW argues, given Defendants' reliance on CAD files and other electronic information created and stored on Gilbert's computer to support the Gasper/Malibu co-inventorship claim 5. See Doc. 273 at 16.[*6] \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 A. Control\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 PCMW argues that Gilbert is an "agent" and as a long-term contractor for Malibu \'97 Gilbert's largest customer \'97 Malibu had control over his actions. Malibu contends (for a second time) that it does not bear any responsibility for Gilbert's actions and it should not be sanctioned.\
Control may be inferred, even when a party does not have possession or ownership of the evidence, "when that party has the right, authority, or practical ability to obtain [the evidence] from a non-party to the action." Victor Stanley, Inc. v. Creative Pipe, Inc., 269 F.R.D. 497 , 523 (D.Md. 2010). The discrepancy in the creation date for the two belatedly-produced CAD files originally led to PCMW's Motion to Compel inspection of Gilbert's computer. When the Court granted the Motion on June 7, 2012 after hearing argument on the issue, Malibu was in effect ordered to exercise "its authority or practical ability" to have Gilbert produce his hard drive (and related documents), or, to Malibu's detriment, Gilbert would not be allowed to testify at trial. Doc. 175.\
Malibu filed an objection/appeal to the portion of the Order requiring Malibu to produce the Gilbert hard drive, arguing that it was not in "the possession, custody, or control" of Malibu, but instead was in Gilbert's exclusive possession 6 and he was outside the Court's jurisdiction. Doc. 193. Malibu argued that the admissibility of Gilbert's testimony was an issue that should be determined by the Court at trial, "with the benefit of the full record concerning Defendants' compliance with the June 7 Order and the probative value of any Gilbert CAD files and testimony in the context of the parties' positions asserted, and evidence proffered, at trial" because "Defendants believe that there is no genuine dispute as to the creation dates of these Gilbert CAD files." Presiding District Judge Antoon reviewed the June 7, 2012 Order and affirmed it; thus, the issues raised by Malibu pertaining to its lack of "custody and control" over Gilbert's CAD files on his computer were considered and rejected. Doc. 201. The end result is that, at least as to Gilbert's work on this particular computer-aided design of the corner-post windshield project in dispute, Malibu exercised adequate "authority or practical ability" to obtain Gilbert's compliance in producing the computer. However, despite the reported admonitions 7 by Malibu's counsel to deliver the computer in an unaltered state, Gilbert chose to run a file deletion program the night before producing the computer.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 B. Spoliation\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Malibu's counsel represents that, immediately after entry of the Court's June 7 Order, Malibu's counsel contacted Gilbert's counsel to advise him of the order and to coordinate the delivery of Gilbert's computer for inspection. Malibu's counsel specifically advised Gilbert's counsel of the importance of complying with the order and emphasized that the computer must be delivered for inspection in an unaltered state. Doc. 295. Over the ensuing weeks, counsel for the parties discussed the logistics for the inspection of the computer hard drives, the protocol for the inspection, [*7] the location for the inspection, and agreed to the inspection date, July 19, 2012. Doc. 295, Berliner Decl.\
Apparently in spite of the admonition to Gilbert that his computer must be delivered in an unaltered state, it is undisputed that Gilbert ran a file-deletion or "computer cleaning/wiping" program named "CCleaner" the night before delivering his computer for inspection. See Doc. 274-2, Forensic Analysis of Nigel Holmes of TCS Forensics. CCleaner is an anti-forensic software application that can be configured to securely delete or even wipe data within the computer hard drive and permanently remove evidence of the deletion even occurring. Doc. 274-2. It is also undisputed that due to the nature and design of CCleaner, the experts have not been able to determine exactly what data was deleted; however, Malibu's forensic computer expert, Samuel Rubin, opines that some of the files "are still forensically recoverable and available for inspection." Doc. 296. Mr. Rubin argues CCleaner was used to "delete certain operating system and application-specific files and settings; however, it was not used to 'wipe' this information, and he was able to identify categories of files "targeted" by the software; then "by parsing certain backups available on the forensic image called 'volume shadow copies,' [he] was able analyze multiple different versions of every category of information targeted by CCleaner for 10 different periods in time dating back to June 15, 2012." Doc. 296 at 5. He opines that CCleaner was not used to selectively wipe or delete any user-created files or folders including "windowtowercomp-c-holes.prt" and "cornerholes.prt" because, using the recovery system he described, he found four copies of these files, none of which had been affected by the operation of CCleaner. Doc. 296 at 5.\
Mr. Rubin opines, based on a review of Gilbert's Internet browsing history (to personal, non-work related websites, including Facebook and YouTube) that he was able to recover, that Gilbert, like other individuals in Mr. Rubin's experience, took steps to delete or "clean" information from the computer that was personal, and thus, Mr. Rubin suggests, Gilbert's use of CCleaner in this case most likely would have deleted such personal web browsing history. Doc. 296 at 5-6. Without actually recovering the files that were deleted, Mr. Rubin's opinion on what or why items were deleted is nothing more than pure speculation. Regardless, there is no dispute between the experts that Gilbert running CCleaner manually was intentional.\
Mr. Holmes noted other indicia of computer expertise consistent with Gilbert's manual execution of CCleaner to intentionally delete files from the hard drives. Although the hard drives Mr. Holmes examined were from the work station Gilbert used on a regular basis for his design work for Malibu and the expert would normally expect them to contain a list of files recently accessed by Gilbert in the registry portion of Gilbert's computer, the registry, Holmes examined was empty and the deletion of data normally populated in this registry [*8] is a specific function of CCleaner. Based on these findings coupled with the destructive nature of the application CCleaner, Mr. Holmes opined that data that would otherwise assist in a forensic investigation is missing or deleted due to Gilbert's deliberate execution of CCleaner. Doc. 274-2 at 20-21.\
Further investigation by Mr. Holmes indicates that the execution of CCleaner the night before Gilbert's producing the computer for inspection was not innocent or accidental. The expert was asked to identify the original file creation date and time stamps of various CAD files because Gilbert had stated at his deposition that there had been a computer hard drive crash in the past that ultimately affected the date and time stamps for the creation date of the CAD files in dispute; thus, an in-depth investigation was conducted of the metadata associated to verify the actual file creation date, which Mr. Holmes ultimately could not obtain \'97 since the file created time found was June 13, 2010 but the modified date was January 14, 2002\'97 Mr. Holmes' opined that Gilbert's explanation for the 2002 last modified dates on his files (due to hard drive crashes in 2004 and 2006 8) was not supported by the evidence. Doc. 274-2. Mr. Holmes also determined that Gilbert's hard drive contained applications and files that had indications they were copied without authorization from DVD's or the internet, using software "cracks" and software "keygens"\'97 commonly used to bypass, or circumvent software protection mechanisms the software vender may have put in place to protect their software against wrongful duplication or piracy 9. Doc. 274-2. Mr. Holmes opines:\
\pard\pardeftab720\li539\ri539\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Due to the nature and design of CCleaner, it is not possible to determine what data was deleted. But since the program was run the night before the computer was to be produced and forensically preserved, and given the destructive nature of the application CCleaner, it is our opinion that data that would otherwise assist in a forensic investigation and/or evidence that could be used at trial is missing or deleted.\
Doc. 274-2 at 23 (emphasis added). All of this evidence indicates to the Court that Gilbert has a high level of sophistication and familiarity with software and computer technology, and the running of CCleaner would not have been an accidental or negligent execution of the computer cleaning software program, but a deliberate act in defiance of the Court's order.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa108\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 C. Sanctions\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 PCMW argues that Gilbert's use of CCleaner to permanently destroy data and evidence stored on Gilbert's hard drives after the Court ordered the production of those hard drives was a blatant violation of the Court's previous order to produce the hard drives and is sanctionable pursuant to Rule 37(b)(2). PCMW contends that the appropriate sanction is to strike Malibu's Answer and Counterclaims which would punish Malibu, and deter others from similar misconduct as well as remedy the prejudice to PCMW. PCMW argues that Gilbert's egregious conduct is deserving of harsh sanctions in light of Malibu's strong resistance [*9] to PCMW's efforts to obtain the Gilbert discovery, after Malibu's late and suspicious production of the Gilbert CAD files with the obviously false 2002 dates and Gasper's testimony that: (1) all relevant computer files had been produced in the case as of June 2011, and he knew of no other relevant files; and (2) he had already asked for and received from Gilbert "everything" he had related to the corner post windshield project. Malibu, PCMW argues, should not be allowed to rely upon the belatedly-produced Gilbert files to corroborate its co-inventorship theory. Doc. 273. PCMW also points to Malibu's additional two-week delay, even after PCMW successfully obtained an order from the Court compelling the Gilbert discovery, as further evidence that Malibu intended to give Gilbert more time to execute the anti-forensics program. PCMW contends that other courts have entered a default or dismissed claims under similar circumstances of such egregious conduct.\
Malibu does not dispute that Gilbert used CCleaner to manually delete unspecified files. However, Malibu argues that PCMW's Sanctions Motion mischaracterizes the facts, and bases its arguments on a forensic investigation that was grossly deficient in failing to recognize that the purportedly deleted files were all recoverable. Malibu argues that PCMW has not been harmed, spoliation sanctions are not warranted, and PCMW's proposed sanctions are vastly overreaching. Malibu argues that it took extraordinary steps to comply with the court order, and the actions complained of in PCMW's Motion were outside of Malibu's control since Gilbert was an independent contractor-third-party witness and Malibu had specifically advised Gilbert of the importance of complying with the Court's order by delivering the hard drive in an unaltered state 10, and to penalize Malibu for the independent actions of a third party witness would be grossly unfair and unjustified. Doc. 294.\
Malibu argues that PCMW "wildly overstates" Gilbert's destruction of evidence and offers a highly misleading description of the facts because the files on Gilbert's hard drive were not permanently deleted and Malibu's forensic expert was "able to restore the files without difficulty." Thus, Malibu argues, it is inexplicable why PCMW's forensic expert was unable to do the same or failed to acknowledge an ability to do so; in addition, the forensic examination shows that the deleted files were "all minor operating system files" having nothing to do with the CAD files, therefore, PCMW has suffered no prejudice to justify its demands for sanctions, and it is nothing more than a tactical move for "an admittedly improper yet ultimately insignificant action" committed by Gilbert.\
The appropriate remedy in this case is more challenging to determine than in other cases because the spoliator in this case, Gilbert, is a non-party, independent contractor for Malibu, and not within the Court's jurisdiction. Nonetheless, it is Malibu who benefits from the lack of any adverse creation dates (post-November 2005) [*10] or other negative metadata on any of the CAD files that PCMW's expert might have found, had files not been deleted. Initially, the creation date of the CAD files produced was the obviously incorrect date of 2002. Once Malibu was ordered to produce Gilbert's hard drives or lose his testimony as a witness, Malibu was able to obtain Gilbert's hard drives.\
Malibu now contends that it should not be sanctioned because, according to Malibu's expert, the deleted files were recoverable \'97 albeit with a good deal of effort "parsing certain backups from the volume shadow copies," and "analyzing multiple different versions of every category of information targeted by CCleaner for 10 different periods in time dating back to June 15, 2012." Doc. 296 at 5. The Court is not confident in this somewhat haphazard methodology. PCMW's expert maintains it is not possible to tell what was deleted and therefore he did not recover it.\
The Court agrees with PCMW's position that simply because the deleted data might possibly be recoverable through a costly and time consuming forensic investigation, this does negate Gilbert's willful deletion of the ESI. PCMW argues that to find otherwise would allow unscrupulous litigants to always choose the destruction of potentially damaging ESI over producing it, and then argue "no harm, no foul" when the destruction is revealed but the ESI can be recovered. In this case \'97 whether or not the ESI can be recovered \'97 sanctions are warranted to deter others, particularly here where the true creation date and accurate metadata of the CAD files could have assisted PCMW in proving its case.\
In the very recent case of Rockwood v. SKF USA Inc., the court was faced with a similar set of facts where a plaintiff deleted a number of documents two days after he was ordered to produce his laptop for the defendant to mirror-image the hard drive, and the plaintiff claimed he did it to prevent the defendant from accessing his personal information. No. 08-cv-168, 2010 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 108792 , 2010 WL 3860414 (D. N.H. Sept. 30, 2012). The court found that plaintiff had other, legitimate means at his disposal to protect his personal information, such as asking the defendant to restrict the list of keywords used to search the hard drive so as to avoid encountering those files, or seeking a protective order from the court pursuant to Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 26 ; the court also discounted plaintiff's claim as "difficult to accept in light of the fact that many of the deleted files were business-related" and not personal. Id. Although the court ultimately found that defendant had not been prejudiced because it had already received paper copies of the deleted documents, the district judge sanctioned the plaintiff with an adverse inference against his credibility as a witness if he testified at trial, holding that some level of sanction was necessary, "to serve this court's 'strong institutional interest in ensuring that litigants honor [its] orders.'" Id. (quoting Malloy, 512 F.3d at 27 ). "Drawing an adverse inference against [the plaintiff] effects that goal while also preserving the judicial preference for the resolution of cases on the [*11] merits, rather than by the application of sanctions." Id. (citing Collazo-Santiago, 149 F.3d at 29 ).\
PCMW cites several additional cases which illustrate the point that deleting files on the eve of producing the hard drive must be sanctioned as a deterrent to others who may contemplate disobeying court orders and destroying evidence, even if when the evidence is recoverable. See, e.g., Connor v. Sun Trust Bank, 546 F. Supp. 2d 1360 , 1376 (N.D.Ga. 2008) ("Plaintiff is prejudiced by Sun Trust's destruction of the February 12 email [which was later recovered] because it raises a question of whether there were other relevant emails in existence at that time but which were also not produced."); see also NHL v. Metropolitan Hockey Club, Inc., 427 U.S. 639 , 643 , 96 S. Ct. 2778 , 49 L. Ed. 2d 747 (1976) ("the most severe in the spectrum of sanctions provided by statute or rule must be available to the district court in appropriate cases, not merely to penalize those whose conduct may be deemed to warrant such a sanction, but to deter those who might be tempted to such conduct in the absence of such a deterrent"); see Gratton v. Great Am. Commc'n, 178 F.3d 1373 , 1374 (11th Cir. 1999) ("Rule 37 sanctions are intended to prevent unfair prejudice to the litigants and insure the integrity of the discovery process").\
One appellate court has emphasized that "because no one has an exclusive insight into truth, the process depends on the adversarial presentation of evidence, precedent and custom, and argument to reasoned conclusions-all directed with unwavering effort to what, in good faith, is believed to be true on matters material to the disposition." Silvestri v. General Motors Corp., 271 F.3d 583 , 590 (4th Cir. 2001). "To preserve the integrity of the judicial process and maintain confidence in the process, it is indispensable that the parties present the fact finder with truthful, accurate, and relevant facts." Taylor v. Mitre Corp., No. 1:11-cv-1247, 2012 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 163854 , 2012 WL 5473715 (E.D. Va. Sept. 10, 2012). "As a result of Plaintiff's intentional spoliation of relevant evidence, it would be impossible for this Court to ensure that the most relevant facts were being presented and for Defendant to be sure they were presenting their strongest defense. In fact, it would be impossible for this Court to conclude that the trier of fact were being presented the truth." Id. \
The Court finds that sanctions are required to keep Malibu from benefitting from Gilbert's intentional conduct and to deter others from similar conduct in the future. See Collazo-Santiago v. Toyota Motor Corp., 149 F.3d 23 , 29 (1st Cir. 1998) (the spoliation doctrine is concerned not only with rectifying prejudice, but with deterring similar misconduct in the future). There is no jury instruction, however, that can effectively protect the victim of a willful spoliation from the prejudice created by willful deletion of files with the manual running of a CCleaner program. See Taylor, 2012 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 163854 , 2012 WL 5473715 (granting motion for dismissal with prejudice for plaintiff's destruction of his hard drive and manual running of CCleaner program that deleted 16,000 files). Nor is there a jury instruction that could adequately deter conduct which "amount[s] to an affront to the integrity of the judicial process." Id. \
However, the cases [*12] granting dismissal or default judgments against the spoliator uniformly involve actions by the actual party who intentionally sought to benefit directly from the destruction. Taylor, 2012 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 163854 , 2012 WL 5473715 (granting motion for dismissal with prejudice for plaintiff's destruction of his hard drive and running of evidence eliminator and CCleaner programs); Gutman v. Klein, No. 03-cv-1570, 2008 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 92398 , 2008 WL 4682208 , *12 (E.D.N.Y. Oct. 15, 2008) (finding that use of a hard drive wiping program "irretrievably deleted computer files that likely contained important discovery information" and may have deprived the aggrieved party of "crucial evidence" sufficient to warrant a default judgment and attorney's fees and costs); Ameriwood Indus., Inc. v. Liberman, No. 4:06-cv-524-DJS, 2007 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 74886 , 2007 WL 5110313 , *1 (E.D. Mo. July, 3, 2007) (entering default judgment and awarding fees and costs because defendant's intentional use of "Window Washer" scrubbing software "evidence a serious disregard for the judicial process and prejudice plaintiff"); Arista Records, LLC v. Tschirhart, 241 F.R.D. 462 , 466 (W.D. Tex. 2006) (awarding fees and costs and proposing an order of default judgment against defendant who willfully destroyed evidence by installing data-wiping software); Communications Center, Inc. v. Hewitt, No. 03-1968, 2005 WL 3277983 , *2 (E.D. Cal. April 5, 2005) (recommending entry of default against defendant for use of Evidence Eliminator software while under a court order to undergo computer imaging finding it showed a "stark affront to the judicial process").\
Here, considering all of the circumstances, it appears that Gilbert, in belatedly providing the CAD files which had incorrect 2002 creation dates, intended to help Malibu in its co-inventor defense. It further appears that Gilbert, in running the CCleaner program once Malibu was ordered to procure the hard drives from Gilbert, may have acted of his own accord, and in contravention of the reported instruction given by Malibu's counsel, but the Court must assume that the material deleted would have assisted PCMW in either prosecuting its patent infringement claim or in refuting Malibu's co-inventor claim. In this case, PCMW has been deprived of the opportunity to learn the contents of the deleted file, and hence the relevance, of the spoliated evidence through Gilbert's actions. The Court previously concluded that Gilbert was under Malibu's "practical control" with regard to the CAD files he was hired to generate for Malibu, and Malibu remains his single largest customer, representing 40% to 50% of his average income since 2002. Doc. 275-2, Gilbert Dep. at 112-13. However, it is also clear that Gilbert is not under Malibu's complete control, such as an employee would be, and in fact he directly contravened Malibu's directions to deliver the hard drive in an unaltered state. The Court must balance Gilbert's culpability and Malibu's "practical control" over his conduct in determining the appropriate sanctions to impose.\
The Court will not strike Malibu's affirmative defenses and counterclaims \'97 which is akin to the extreme sanction of a default or dismissal in this patent dispute \'97 for the conduct of a non-party witness [*13] only partially under the control of Malibu. The Court finds that the appropriate sanction as a result of Gilbert's alteration of the hard drives is an expansion of the penalty established in the June 7, 2012 Order for the failure of Malibu to procure them \'97 Gilbert will not be allowed to testify at trial and evidence that originated with him will be excluded. See Fed. R. Civ. P. 37(b)(2)(A)(ii) (sanctions for failing to obey a court order include prohibiting the disobedient party from supporting or opposing designated claims or defenses, or from introducing designated matters in evidence). Malibu will not be allowed to rely on Gilbert's deposition testimony for summary judgment purposes 11 or at trial, and Malibu will not be allowed to rely on any documents \'97 CAD files, jpegs, or emails, etc. \'97 sent from or to Gilbert that Malibu has produced 12.\
Exclusion of the evidence involving Gilbert as a sanction, alone, is insufficient to compensate PCMW, who has needlessly been required to expend attorney's fees and costs on this "electronic discovery debacle" by following up Gilbert's belatedly produced CAD files with the obviously incorrect dates, by taking Gilbert's deposition, and by expending funds for the forensic investigation into Gilbert's altered hard drives. Attorney's fees are to be awarded as a sanction in addition to the other sanctions listed in the Rule where the failure of the party to comply with the Court's order was not substantially justified. Fed. R. Civ. P. 37(b)(2)(C) .\
If Malibu \'97 recognizing the obvious unreliability of the Gilbert files \'97 had stipulated at an earlier stage of discovery (i.e., March 2012) that the CAD files as produced by Gilbert had creation dates which were clearly incorrect, and the documents were of no evidentiary value, or had agreed to exclude Gilbert's testimony after his deposition when he could not clarify why "2002" dates attached to files allegedly created before his "hard drive crashed in 2006," this whole costly trip down the rabbit hole might have been avoided. PCMW is entitled to an award of reasonable attorney's fees and the cost of the forensic investigation by Mr. Holmes and his firm. PCMW is also entitled to recover from Malibu the cost of attending Gilbert's deposition in Seattle, Washington.\
Accordingly, it is ORDERED that Plaintiff's Motion for Sanctions for Malibu's Destruction of Evidence in Violation of Court's Order (Doc. No. 273) is GRANTED in part and DENIED in part. as set forth above. PCMW is ORDERED to file an affidavit within 10 days setting forth its reasonable attorney's fees and costs; the cost of the forensic investigation by Mr. Holmes and his firm; the costs of attending Gilbert's deposition in Seattle, Washington.\
The parties may seek leave to amend their pretrial statement if necessary in light of the ruling herein.\
DONE and ORDERED in Orlando, Florida on November 30, 2012.\
/s/ David A. Baker \
DAVID A. BAKER \
UNITED STATES MAGISTRATE JUDGE\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0  \uc0\u8232 \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 1\
Malibu also counterclaimed for infringement of another patent, U.S. Patent No. 6,647,915 , not relevant to the sanctions sought in this Motion.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 2\
The Background Facts are adopted primarily from the Parties' Joint Pretrial Statement. Doc. 308.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 3\
PCMW also developed manufacturing drawings of the windshield using computerized drafting software ("CAD"), which were registered with the U.S. Copyright Office.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 4\
Gilbert's deposition was noticed by Defendants for the last day of the discovery period.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 5\
PCMW argues that, although Malibu never formally identified Gilbert as a "potential co-inventor," it has adopted the position in recent court filings, that Gilbert is also an omitted co-inventor on the patents. However, Malibu in its Memorandum in Opposition limits its discussion solely to Gasper as a co-inventor and describes Gilbert as employed to assist him with CAD. Doc. 294 at 3.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 6\
Although PCMW contends that Malibu had access to Gilbert's computer in March 2012, Malibu's counsel states that Malibu never had possession of the computer \'97 it hired an outside vendor to conduct the search for the file. Doc. 294 at 10.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 7\
The communication was apparently oral and not written; no evidence of written correspondence has been filed. See Doc. 295 \'b6 8.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 8\
Mr. Holmes points out that the hard drive was manufactured in 2010, not 2006. See Doc. 274-2 at 15.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 9\
The programs identified during Mr. Holmes' examination were designed to bypass, or wrongfully generate a key or serial number so the end-user does not have to purchase a valid software license to use the vender's product. See Doc. 274-2 at 17.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 10\
Malibu's counsel represents that he conveyed this admonition to Gilbert's counsel. Doc. 295 \'b6 8.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 11\
See, e.g., Doc. 212, Ex. U to DD; Doc. 251-5.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 fn 
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 12\
Emails or jpeg files that were originated by Gasper (and sent to others besides Gilbert) are not excluded as a sanction, such as the series of emails from Gasper to Bach in November 2005 containing renderings of these windshield images. However, the admissibility of such evidence is left to the district judge's discretion at trial.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb566\sa1133\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0          
\f0\fs42 General Information\

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 Judge(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 David A. Baker\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Date Filed\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 2012-11-30 00:00:00\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Parties\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 PACIFIC COAST MARINE WINDSHIELDS LIMITED, a foreign corporation, Plaintiff, -vs- MALIBU BOATS, LLC, a California limited liability company, MARINE HARDWARE, INC., TRESSMARK, INC., MH WINDOWS, LLC, JOHN F. PUGH, OWNER, PRESIDENT & CEO DARREN BACH, Defendants.\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Court\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 United States District Court for the Middle District of Florida\cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\li674\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\fs20 \cf0 Pagination \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 *
\f1\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 BL
\f1\fs24 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\li674\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clcbpat1 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt13 \clpadl13 \clpadb13 \clpadr13 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 United States District Court, M.D. Florida \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 NATIONAL ALLIANCE FOR ACCESSABILITY, INC., and DENISE PAYNE Plaintiffs, vs. WALGREEN CO., Defendant. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb243\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 Case No. 3:10-CV-780-J-32-TEM. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 November 28, 2011. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa243\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
ORDER 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\
TIMOTHY J. CORRIGAN, United States District Judge. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\
Plaintiffs, the National Alliance for Accessability, Inc. and Denise Payne, brought suit pursuit to Title III of the Americans with Disabilities Act ("ADA"), 42 U.S.C. \'a7 12181, et. seq., claiming that Walgreen Co. ("Walgreens") failed to provide reasonable access to individuals with disabilities at its store in Lake City, Florida. This case is before the Court on Walgreens' Motion for Dismissal Under Rule 12(b)(1), or, in the Alternative, for Summary Judgment, which alleges that this case is moot because Walgreens is now in compliance with the ADA. Doc. 26.[fn1]
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 I. THE AMERICANS WITH DISABILITY ACT
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Title III of the ADA provides: 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 No individual shall be discriminated against on the basis of disability in the full and equal enjoyment of the goods, services, facilities, privileges, advantages, or accommodations of any place of public accommodation by any person who owns, leases, (or leases to), or operates a place of public accommodation. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 42 U.S.C. \'a7 12182(a). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The ADA contains a number of requirements for places of public accommodation, and a failure to comply with these requirements is often defined as discrimination. Most relevant to this case, the ADA provides that discrimination includes "a failure to remove architectural barriers ... where such removal is readily achievable." \'a7 12182(b)(2)(A)(iv). If a place of public accommodation is found to violate this provision, a court may issue an injunction requiring the defendant "to alter facilities to make such facilities readily accessible to and usable by individuals with disabilities." \'a7 12188(a)(2). A prevailing plaintiff is not entitled to damages, but she may recover reasonable attorneys' fees. \'a7\'a7 12188(a), 2000a-3(b). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 II. BACKGROUND
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The Complaint alleges that Payne, a member of the National Alliance for Accessability who qualifies as an individual with disabilities under the ADA, visited Walgreens' Lake City store and "encountered architectural barriers at the subject property" that denied her "the opportunity to participate and benefit from the goods, services, privileges, advantages, facilities and accommodations at Defendant's property." Doc. 1 at 2-3. More specifically, the Complaint alleges the parking spaces, entrance access, paths of travel, and restroom facilities at Walgreens' store are not in compliance with the requirements of the ADA. See Doc. 1 at 4-5.[fn2]
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Walgreens was first made aware of its alleged violations of the ADA when Plaintiffs filed suit in this case. Doc. 26-4 at 1. Soon thereafter, Walgreens hired a consultant, Jeffrey Gross, to assist in making the store comply with the ADA. See Doc. 26 at 3. Plaintiffs also hired an expert, Gene Mattera, who inspected the facility and submitted a report that detailed instances of alleged noncompliance and listed recommendations to correct the identified deficiencies. See Doc. 26-5. Based on the experts' recommendations, Walgreens made [*2] a number of repairs and adopted a new policy governing ADA accessibility. Id. After again inspecting the facility after the completion of the repairs, Gross now asserts that "Walgreens has addressed each and every ADA item at issue." Doc. 26-2 at 5. Plaintiffs have not challenged Gross's conclusions or otherwise suggested that Walgreens remains in violation of the ADA. See Doc. 29.[fn3]
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 III. DISCUSSION
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 While both parties appear to agree that Walgreens is no longer in violation of the ADA, the parties dispute whether Walgreens' compliance renders this case moot. "[A] case is moot when it no longer presents a live controversy with respect to which the court can give meaningful relief." Troiano v. Supervisor of Elections in Palm Beach Cnty., Fla., 382 F.3d 1276, 1282 (11th Cir. 2004). A federal court does not have jurisdiction to decide a moot case because, "[u]nder Article III of the Constitution, federal courts may only hear cases or controversies." DiMaio v. Democratic Nat'l Comm., 555 F.3d 1343, 1345 (11th Cir. 2009) (quotations omitted). Walgreens argues this case does not present a live controversy \'97 and therefore is moot \'97 because the Court can grant no meaningful relief now that the facility is compliant with the requirements of the ADA. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 In its Rule 12(b)(1) motion, Walgreens thus argues that this Court lacks subject matter jurisdiction. The Eleventh Circuit has explained that: 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Attacks on subject matter jurisdiction under Rule 12(b)(1) come in two forms, "facial" and "factual" attacks. Facial attacks challenge subject matter jurisdiction based on the allegations in the complaint, and the district court takes the allegations as true in deciding whether to grant the motion. Factual attacks challenge subject matter jurisdiction in fact, irrespective of the pleadings. In resolving a factual attack, the district court may consider extrinsic evidence such as testimony and affidavits. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Morrison v. Amway Corp., 323 F.3d 920, 924 n. 5 (11th Cir. 2003) (quotations omitted). Moreover, when resolving a factual attack, the district court "is free to weigh the evidence and satisfy itself as to the existence of its power to hear the case." Lawrence v. Dunbar, 919 F.2d 1525, 1529 (11th Cir. 1990). Walgreens' motion is a factual attack "because it relie[s] on extrinsic evidence and d[oes] not assert lack of subject matter jurisdiction solely on the basis of the pleadings." Morrison, 323 F.3d at 925. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Plaintiffs contend this Court has jurisdiction because "[i]t is well settled that a defendant's voluntary cessation of a challenged practice does not deprive a federal court of its power to determine the legality of the practice." Sheely v. MRI Radiology Network, P.A., 505 F.3d 1173, 1183 (11th Cir. 2007) (quoting Troiano, 382 F.3d at 1282). This "doctrine of voluntary cessation provides an important exception to the general rule that a case is mooted by the end of the offending behavior." Id. The standard for judging whether voluntary conduct has mooted a case "is stringent: A case mightbecome moot if subsequent events made it absolutely clear that the allegedly wrongful behavior could not reasonably be expected to recur."  Id. at 1184. In assessing whether this standard has been met, the Eleventh Circuit has found the following three factors [*3] to be relevant: "(1) whether the challenged conduct was isolated or unintentional, as opposed to a continuing and deliberate practice; (2) whether the defendant's cessation of the offending conduct was motivated by a genuine change of heart or timed to anticipate suit; and (3) whether, in ceasing the conduct, the defendant has acknowledged liability." Id. Plaintiffs argue this case is not moot because there is a reasonable possibility that Walgreens will violate the ADA in the future. See Doc. 29.[fn4]
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 In a number of cases, however, "[f]ederal courts have dismissed ADA claims as moot when the alleged violations have been remedied after the initial filing of a suit seeking injunctive relief." Norkunas v. Tar Heel CapitalWendy's LLC, No. 5:09-cv-00116, [2011 BL 187411], 2011 WL 2940722, at *3 (W.D. N.C. July 19, 2009); see also Norkunas v. Seahorse NB, LLC, No. 3:09-cv-934-J-32MCR, [2011 BL 135972], 2011 WL 1988799, at *6 (M.D. Fla. May 23, 2011) (denying injunctive relief and attorneys' fees when the defendant voluntarily fixed all identified ADA violations prior to trial), aff'd, No. 11-12402, [2011 BL 274043], 2011 WL 5041705 (11th Cir. Oct. 25, 2011). These courts have generally found that the "alleged discrimination cannot reasonably be expected to recur because `structural modifications are unlikely to be altered in the future.'" Sharp v. Rosa Mexicano, D.C., LLC, 496 F. Supp.2d 93, 99 (D.D.C. 2007) (quoting Indep.Living Res. v. Oregon Arena Corp., 982 F. Supp. 698, 774 (D.Or. 1997)); seealso, e.g., Kallen v. J.R. Eight, Inc., 775 F. Supp.2d 1374, 1379 (S.D. Fla. 2011) ("It is untenable for Plaintiff to suggest that once the renovations are completed they could be undone.") (quoting Access4 All, Inc. v. Casa Marina Owner, LLC, 458 F. Supp. 2d 1359, 1366 (S.D. Fla. 2006)); Grove v. DeLa Cruz, 407 F. Supp.2d 1126, 1130-31 (C.D. Cal. 2005) (holding that the installation of grab rails by a restaurant rendered moot plaintiff's ADA complaint requesting installation of such rails). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 The Court likewise finds that, given the structural changes made to Walgreens' Lake City facility, coupled with its new ADA compliance policy and concomitant training, it is "absolutely clear" that the ADA violations identified by Plaintiffs cannot "reasonably be expected to recur." Sheely, 505 F.3d at 1184. Walgreens made a number of repairs to its facility, including fixing cracks in a curb ramp, installing electric door openers on the restrooms, placing insulating wrap around the pipes in the restrooms, and installing ADA-compliant hardware on the doors of the stalls. See Doc. 26-3. Because Walgreens has invested substantial resources to make its store ADA-compliant, it would be unreasonable to think that Walgreens would remove the improvements or otherwise violate the ADA after the case is dismissed. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Moreover, the factors identified by the Eleventh Circuit also suggest that Walgreens' alleged violations are unlikely to recur. First, Walgreens' violations of the ADA appear to have been unknowing and unintentional (seeDoc. 26-4 at 1), and there is no reason to think that Walgreens would desire to violate the ADA in the future. Second, although the repairs were made in response to this lawsuit, Walgreens appears to have genuinely attempted to comply with the law. See id. at 2. Finally, in its motion for summary judgment, Walgreens does not argue that it was originally in compliance with the ADA. See Doc. 26 at 12 n. 4. The Court therefore holds that Walgreens' [*4] voluntary compliance with the ADA has mooted this case. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Plaintiffs' claims for attorneys' fees and costs must also be denied. Plaintiffs have obtained no favorable ruling, and, under Title lII of the ADA, Plaintiffs "cannot ... recover their attorney's fees for serving as a `catalyst,' i.e., that they caused [defendant] to implement the changes they sought." Am. Ass'n of People with Disabilities v. Harris, 605 F.3d 1124, 1137 n. 26 (11th Cir. 2010). 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 Accordingly, it is hereby 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 ORDERED: 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 1. Walgreen's Motion for Dismissal Under Rule 12(b)(1) (Doc. 26) is GRANTED IN PART AND DENIED IN PART. The motion is GRANTED to the extent that it seeks dismissal of all claims brought by Plaintiffs, National Alliance for Accessability, Inc. and Denise Payne as moot, and DENIED AS MOOT to the extent that it seeks summary judgment. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 2. This action is MOOT and therefore DISMISSED for lack of jurisdiction. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 DONE AND ORDERED
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn1] Because the Court finds that this case is due to be dismissed as moot, this Order does not reach Walgreens' alternative request for summary judgment under Rule 56. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn2] The Complaint also alleges that these items violate the Florida Accessability Code ("FAC"), the state complement to the ADA, though it does not reference any specific provision of the FAC. Because the parties have not argued that the alleged violations of the FAC should be analyzed any differently than the alleged violations of the ADA, the mootness analysis provided in this Order applies equally to any alleged violations of the FAC. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn3] Moreover, Plaintiffs' expert has not inspected the facility since the conclusion of the repairs. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 [fn4] Plaintiffs thus seek an injunction prohibiting any such future violations. 
\f2\fs16 \

\f0\fs20 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb566\sa1133\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0          
\f0\fs42 General Information\

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 Judge(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Timothy J. Corrigan\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Related Docket(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 3:10-cv-00780 (M.D. Fla.);\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Topic(s)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Civil Procedure; Damages & Remedies; Health Law\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Date Filed\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 2011-11-28 00:00:00\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Parties\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 NATIONAL ALLIANCE FOR ACCESSABILITY, INC., and DENISE PAYNE Plaintiffs, vs. WALGREEN CO., Defendant.\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Case Type\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 SO\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Court\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ri0\sb340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 United States District Court for the Middle District of Florida\cell \lastrow\row
}